T H E AR T
O F wi
FICTIO N
DAVI D
LODG E 
$22.00
T
he articles with which David Lodge entertained
and delighted readers of the Independent and
The Washington Post Book World for fifty weeks
between 1991 and 1992 have now been revised,
expanded, and collected together in book form. The art
of fiction is considered under a wide range of headings,
such as the Intrusive Author, Suspense, the Epistolary
Novel, Time-shift, the Sense of Place, and Symbolism.
Each topic is illustrated by a short passage or two taken
from classic and modem fiction, ranging from Laurence
Sterne to J.D. Salinger, from Jane Austen to Fay
Weldon, from Charles Dickens to Martin Amis. David
Lodge takes these passages apart and puts them back
together again with the expertise of a novelist, critic, and
teacher. Technical terms are lucidly explained, and their
applications examined, in the literary-critical equivalent
of slow-motion replays of some of the best writing in the
English language. To throw further light on a given topic
the author sometimes refers directly, and revealingly,
to his own experience of writing fiction.
This book is essential reading for students of literature,
aspiring writers, and anyone who enjoys literary fiction
and would like to understand better how it works.
0793 
DAVID LODGE has published nine novels,
including Paradise News, Nice Work (short-listed for
the Booker Prize and winner of the Sunday Express
Book of the Year Award, 1988), Small World (also
shortlisted for the Booker Prize in 1984), How Far Can
You Go? (Whitbread Book of the Year, 1980), and
Changing Places (awarded the Yorkshire Post and
Hawthomden prizes). He is Honorary Professor of Modern English Literature at the University of Birmingham,
where he taught from 1960 to 1987, and is the author
of several other works of literary criticism. He lives with
his wife and children in Birmingham.
Jacket design by Melissa Jacoby
Jacket painting by Vincent Van Gogh, The Nouel Reader, 1888. Private
collection. Photograph courtesy of
The Lefevre Gallery, London.
VIKING PENGUIN
a division of Penguin Books USA Inc.
375 Hudson Street, New York, N.Y. 10014 VIKING Printed in U.S.A. 
C E I I I F hen does a novel begin? The question is almost as difficult to answer
• w as the question, when does the human embryo become a person?
Certainly the creation of a novel rarely begins with the penning or typing of
its first words. Most writers do some preliminary work, if it is only in their
heads. . . . For the reader, however, the novel always begins with that opening sentence (which may not, of course, be the first sentence the novelist
originally wrote). And then the next sentence, and then the sentence after
that. . . . When does the beginning of a novel end, is another difficult question to answer. Is it the first paragraph, the first few pages, or the first chapter?
However one defines it, the beginning of a novel is a threshold, separating
the real world we inhabit from the world the novelist has imagined."
—from The Art of Fiction
ISBN 0-670-84848-4 
The Art of Fiction
Also by David Lodge
NOVELS
The Picturegoers
Ginger, You're Barmy
The British Museum is Falling Down
Out of the Shelter
Changing Places
How Far Can You Go?
Small World
Nice Work
Paradise News
CRITICISM
Language of Fiction
The Novelist at the Crossroads
The Modes of Modern Writing
Working With Structuralism
After Bakhtin
ESSAYS
Write On
PLAY
The Writing Game
THE ART OF
FICTION
Illustrated from Classic and Modern Texts
DAVID LODGE
VIKING
VIKING
Published by the Penguin Group
Penguin Books USA Inc., 375 Hudson Street,
New York, New York 10014, U.S.A.
Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane,
London W8 5TZ, England
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood,
Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4V 3B2
Penguin Books (N.Z.) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road,
Auckland 10, New Zealand
Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices:
Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England
First American Edition
Published in 1993 by Viking Penguin, a division of Penguin Books USA Inc.
357 9 10 86 4
Copyright © David Lodge, 1992
All rights reserved
The essays in this book first appeared in different form in
The Independent on Sunday in Great Britain and in The Washington Post
Book World in the United States.
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS CATALOGING-IN-PUBLICATION DATA
Lodge, David, 1935-
The art of fiction : illustrated from classic and modern texts /
David Lodge.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-670-84848-4
1. English fiction — History and criticism — Theory, etc.
2. American fiction — History and criticism — Theory, etc.
3. Criticism — Terminology. 4. Fiction — Technique. I. Title.
PR826.L63 1993
823.009-dc20 92-50751
Printed in the United States of America
Set in Ehrhardt
Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above,
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in
or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by
any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise),
without the prior written permission of both the copyright
owner and the above publisher of this book.
To John Blackwell
"genius among editors" (The Writing Game, Act Two Scene Two)

Contents
Preface ix
1 Beginning (Jane Austen, Ford Madox Ford) 3
2 The Intrusive Author (George Eliot, E. M. Forster) 9
3 Suspense (Thomas Hardy) 13
4 Teenage Skaz (J. D. Salinger) 17
5 The Epistolary Novel (Michael Frayn) 21
6 Point of View (Henry James) 25
7 Mystery (Rudyard Kipling) 30
8 Names (David Lodge, Paul Auster) 35
9 The Stream of Consciousness (Virginia Woolf) 41
10 Interior Monologue (James Joyce) 46
1 1 Defamiliarization (Charlotte Bronté) 52
12 The Sense of Place (Martin Amis) 56
13 Lists (F. Scott Fitzgerald) 61
14 Introducing a Character (Christopher Isherwood) 66
15 Surprise (William Makepeace Thackeray) 70
16 Time-Shift (Muriel Spark) 74
17 The Reader in the Text (Laurence Sterne) 80
18 Weather (Jane Austen, Charles Dickens) 84
19 Repetition (Ernest Hemingway) 89
20 Fancy Prose (Vladimir Nabokov) 94
21 Intertextuality (Joseph Conrad) 98
22 The Experimental Novel (Henry Green) 104
23 The Comic Novel (Kingsley Amis) 109
24 Magic Realism (Milan Kundera) 11 3
25 Staying on the Surface (Malcolm Bradbury) 11 7
26 Showing and Telling (Henry Fielding) 12 1
27 Telling in Different Voices (Fay Weldon) 125
28 A Sense of the Past (John Fowles) 130
vii
CONTENTS
29 Imagining the Future (George Orwell) 134
30 Symbolism (D. H. Lawrence) 138
31 Allegory (Samuel Butler) 142
32 Epiphany (John Updike) 146
33 Coincidence (Henry James) 149
34 The Unreliable Narrator (Kazuo Ishiguro) 154
35 The Exotic (Graham Greene) 158
36 Chapters etc. (Tobias Smollett, Laurence Sterne,
Sir Walter Scott, George Eliot, James Joyce) 162
37 The Telephone (Evelyn Waugh) 169
38 Surrealism (Leonora Carrington) 174
39 Irony (Arnold Bennett) 178
40 Motivation (George Eliot) 182
41 Duration (Donald Barthelme) 186
42 Implication (William Cooper) 189
43 The Title (George Gissing) 193
44 Ideas (Anthony Burgess) 197
45 The Non-Fiction Novel (Thomas Carlyle) 201
46 Metafiction (John Barth) 206
47 The Uncanny (Edgar Allan Poe) 21 1
48 Narrative Structure (Leonard Michaels) 215
49 Aporia (Samuel Beckett) 219
50 Ending (Jane Austen, William Golding) 223
Bibliography of primary sources 231
Index of Names 237
vui
Preface
For twelve months between 1990 and 1991, the poet James Fenton
contributed a weekly column to the book pages of The Independent
on Sunday entitled "Ars Poetica", the title of a famous treatise on
poetry by the Roman poet Horace. Each week Fenton printed a
short poem or extract from a poem, and wrote a commentary
designed to throw light on both the text and some aspect of the art
of poetry in general. Early in 1991 the literary editor of the
newspaper, Blake Morrison, rang me up and asked if I would be
interested in writing something similar about prose fiction when
James Fenton had finished his stint.
Usually I take time to consider journalistic proposals, and more
often than not I say no in the end; but on this occasion I had
decided to say yes almost before Blake had finished his pitch. For
nearly thirty years, between i960 and 1987,1 was an academic as
well as a novelist, teaching English Literature at Birmingham
University. Over that time I published several books of literary
criticism, mainly concerned with novels and "The Novel", and for
many of those years I offered a course called Form in Fiction.
After taking early retirement from my university post in 1987 I
found that I had little inclination or incentive to go on writing
criticism for an essentially academic audience; but I felt that I still
had things to say on the art of fiction and the history of the novel
that might be of interest to a more general reading public, and
sensed that a weekly newspaper column might provide an ideal
platform.
I settled quite quickly on a format that was topic-centred rather
than text-centred, since a novel, unlike many excellent poems,
cannot be quoted in its entirety in a newspaper article. Each week
I chose one or two short extracts from novels or stories, classic
and modern, to illustrate some aspect of "The Art of Fiction".
ix
PREFACE
(Following on Fenton's
 uArs Poetica", this was a more or less
inevitable name for the series, and I have retained it for the book
in spite of some uneasiness at trespassing on the title of a venerated
essay by Henry James.) With a few exceptions - Jane Austen,
George Eliot, Henry James - I took my examples from a different
author, or brace of authors, each week. I confined myself almost
exclusively to English and American writers, because this is, as
academics say, "my field" and I am less confident of doing accurate
close analysis of novels outside it. I have commented on some of
these passages before in print, but not in exactly the same terms.
I began with "Beginning" and always intended to end with
"Ending". In between these two, one week's article sometimes
suggested the topic for the following week, but I did not design the
series as a systematic, progressive introduction to the theory of the
novel. In revising the pieces for book publication I have inserted a
number of cross-references, and provided an index, which should
compensate for the somewhat random sequence of topics. Once a
teacher, always a teacher. Although the book is intended for the
"general reader" I have deliberately used, with explanations, a
number of technical terms which may be unfamiliar to such a
reader, because you cannot analyse a literary text without an
appropriate descriptive vocabulary, any more than you can strip
down an engine without an appropriate set of tools. Some of these
terms are modern, like "intertextuality" and "metafiction", and
some are ancient, like the names of figures of speech in classical
rhetoric ("metonymy", "synecdoche" etc.), which modern linguistics has not yet improved upon. An alternative title for this book, if
Wayne Booth hadn't used it already, would be The Rhetoric of
Fiction. I have always regarded fiction as an essentially rhetorical
art - that is to say, the novelist or short story-writer persuades us to
share a certain view of the world for the duration of the reading
experience, effecting, when successful, that rapt immersion in an
imagined reality that Van Gogh caught so well in his painting "The
Novel Reader". Even novelists who, for their own artistic purposes,
deliberately break that spell have to cast it first.
The original articles were written to a prescribed length, but I
usually submitted my copy slightly over-long, leaving the task of
PREFACE
trimming it to fit the available space in the capable hands of Blake
Morrison and his assistant Jan Dalley. (I should like to record here
my appreciation of the skill and tact with which they carried out
this task.) In revising the articles for book publication I have
restored some of the passages which they were obliged to cut, and
some which I deleted myself from earlier drafts, and have added
new material, both illustrative and argumentative, to nearly all of
them. One item has been replaced by a new piece on "Chapters".
To throw light on the nuts and bolts of fiction, I have drawn more
frequently on my own experience as a writer than seemed either
appropriate or practicable in the original newspaper articles.
The book is approximately thirty per cent longer than the
original series. But I have not attempted to "cover" any of the
topics exhaustively. Most of them, after all, could be the subject of
full-length essays or whole volumes, and in many cases already
have been. This is a book for people who prefer to take their Lit.
Crit. in small doses, a book to browse in, and dip into, a book that
does not attempt to say the definitive word on any of the topics it
touches on, but one that will, I hope, enhance readers' understanding and enjoyment of prose fiction, and suggest to them new
possibilities of reading - and, who knows, even writing - in this
most various and rewarding of literary forms.
XI

The Art of Fiction

i Beginning
Emma Woodhouse, handsome, clever, and rich, with a comfortable home and happy disposition, seemed to unite some of the
best blessings of existence; and had lived nearly twenty-one
years in the world with very little to distress or vex her.
She was the youngest of the two daughters of a most affectionate, indulgent father, and had, in consequence of her sister's
marriage, been mistress of his house from a very early period.
Her mother had died too long ago for her to have more than an
indistinct remembrance of her caresses, and her place had been
supplied by an excellent woman as governess, who had fallen
little short of a mother in affection.
Sixteen years had Miss Taylor been in Mr Woodhouse's
family, less as a governess than a friend, very fond of both
daughters, but particularly of Emma. Between them it was more
the intimacy of sisters. Even before Miss Taylor had ceased to
hold the nominal office of governess, the mildness of her temper
had hardly allowed her to impose any restraint; and the shadow
of authority being now long passed away, they had been living
together as friend and friend very mutually attached, and Emma
doing just what she liked; highly esteeming Miss Taylor's
judgment, but directed chiefly by her own.
The real evils indeed of Emma's situation were the power of
having rather too much her own way, and a disposition to think
a little too well of herself; these were the disadvantages which
threatened alloy to her many enjoyments. The danger, however,
was at present so unperceived, that they did not by any means
rank as misfortunes with her.
Sorrow came - a gentle sorrow - but not at all in the shape of
any disagreeable consciousness. - Miss Taylor married.
JANE AUSTEN Emma (1816)
This is the saddest story I have ever heard. We had known the
Ashburnhams for nine seasons of the town of Nauheim with an
extreme intimacy - or, rather, with an acquaintanceship as loose
and easy and yet as close as a good glove's with your hand. My
wife and I knew Captain and Mrs. Ashburnham as well as it was
possible to know anybody, and yet, in another sense, we knew
nothing at all about them. This is, I believe, a state of things
only possible with English people of whom, till today, when I sit
down to puzzle out what I know of this sad affair, I knew
nothing whatever. Six months ago I had never been to England,
and, certainly, I had never sounded the depths of an English
heart. I had known the shallows.
FORD MADOX FORD The Good Soldier (1915)
WHEN DOES A NOVEL BEGIN? The question is almost as difficult to
answer as the question, when does the human embryo become a
person? Certainly the creation of a novel rarely begins with the
penning or typing of its first words. Most writers do some
preliminary work, if it is only in their heads. Many prepare the
ground carefully over weeks or months, making diagrams of the
plot, compiling C.V.s for their characters, filling a notebook with
ideas, settings, situations, jokes, to be drawn on in the process of
composition. Every writer has his or her own way of working.
Henry James made notes for The Spoils offbynton almost as long
and almost as interesting as the finished novel. Muriel Spark, I
understand, broods mentally on the concept of a new novel and
does not set pen to paper until she has thought of a satisfactory
title and opening sentence.
For the reader, however, the novel always begins with that
opening sentence (which may not, of course, be the first sentence
the novelist originally wrote). And then the next sentence, and then
the sentence after that — When does the beginning of a novel
end, is another difficult question to answer. Is it the first paragraph,
the first few pages, or the first chapter? However one defines it,
4
BEGINNING
the beginning of a novel is a threshold, separating the real world
we inhabit from the world the novelist has imagined. It should
therefore, as the phrase goes, "draw us in".
This is not an easy task. We are not yet familiar with the author's
tone of voice, range of vocabulary, syntactic habits. We read a book
slowly and hesitantly, at first. We have a lot of new information to
absorb and remember, such as the characters' names, their
relationships of affinity and consanguinity, the contextual details of
time and place, without which the story cannot be followed. Is all
this effort going to be worthwhile? Most readers will give an author
the benefit of the doubt for at least a few pages, before deciding to
back out over the threshold. With the two specimens shown here,
however, our hesitation is likely to be minimal or non-existent. We
are "hooked" by the very first sentence in each case.
Jane Austen's opening is classical: lucid, measured, objective,
with ironic implication concealed beneath the elegant velvet glove
of the style. How subtly the first sentence sets up the heroine for a
fall. This is to be the reverse of the Cinderella story, the triumph
of an undervalued heroine, that previously attracted Jane Austen's
imagination from Pride and Prejudice to Mansfield Park. Emma is a
Princess who must be humbled before she finds true happiness.
"Handsome" (rather than conventionally pretty or beautiful - a
hint of masculine will-to-power, perhaps, in that androgynous
epithet), "clever" (an ambiguous term for intelligence, sometimes
applied derogatively, as in "too clever for her own good") and
"rich", with all its biblical and proverbial associations of the moral
dangers of wealth: these three adjectives, so elegantly combined (a
matter of stress and phonology - try rearranging them) encapsulate
the deceptiveness of Emma's "seeming" contentment. Having lived
"nearly twenty-one years in the world with very little to distress or
vex her", she is due for a rude awakening. Nearly twenty-one, the
traditional age of majority, Emma must now take responsibility for
her own life, and for a woman in early nineteenth-century bourgeois society this meant deciding whether and whom to marry.
Emma is unusually free in this respect, since she is already
"mistress" of her household, a circumstance likely to breed
arrogance, especially as she has been brought up by a governess
5
BEGINNING
who supplied a mother's affection but not (by implication) a
mother's discipline.
This suggestion is made more emphatically in the third paragraph; but at the same time, interestingly enough, we begin to hear
the voice of Emma herself in the discourse, as well as the judicious,
objective voice of the narrator. "Between them it was more the
intimacy of sisters." "They had been living together as friend and
friend ... " In these phrases we seem to hear Emma's own, rather
self-satisfied description of her relationship with her governess,
one which allowed her to do "just what she liked." The ironic
structure of the paragraph's conclusion, "highly esteeming Miss
Taylor's judgment, but directed chiefly by her own," symmetrically
balances two statements that are logically incompatible, and thus
indicates the flaw in Emma's character that is explicitly stated by
the narrator in the fourth paragraph. With the marriage of Miss
Taylor, the story proper begins: deprived of Miss Taylor's company
and mature counsel, Emma takes up a young protégée, Harriet,
who encourages her vanity, and on whose behalf she begins to
indulge in a matchmaking intrigue, with disastrous results.
Ford Madox Ford's famous opening sentence is a blatant ploy to
secure the reader's attention, virtually dragging us over the threshold by the collar. But almost at once a characteristically modern
obscurity and indirection, an anxiety about the possibility of
discovering any truth, infect the narrative. Who is this person
addressing us? He uses English yet is not English himself. He has
known the English couple who seem to be the subject of the
"saddest story" for at least nine years, yet claims to have "known
nothing" about the English until this very moment of narration.
"Heard" in the first sentence suggests that he is going to narrate
someone else's story, but almost immediately it is implied that the
narrator, and perhaps his wife, were themselves part of it. The
narrator knows the Ashburnhams intimately - and not at all. These
contradictions are rationalized as an effect of Englishness, of the
disparity between appearance and reality in English middle-class
behaviour; so this beginning strikes a similar thematic note to
Emma's, though tragic rather than comic in its premonitory under6
BEGINNING
tones. The word "sad" is repeated towards the end of the
paragraph, and another keyword, "heart" (two of the characters
have supposed heart-conditions, all of them have disordered
emotional lives), is dropped into the penultimate sentence.
I used the metaphor of a glove to describe Jane Austen's style, a
style which itself claims authority partly by eschewing metaphor
(metaphor being an essentially poetic figure of speech, at the
opposite pole to reason and common sense). That same metaphor
of a glove actually occurs in the opening paragraph of The Good
Soldier, though with a different meaning. Here it signifies polite
social behaviour, the easy but restrained manners that go with
affluence and discriminating taste (a "good" glove is specified), but
with a hint of deceptive concealment or "covering up". Some of
the enigmas raised in the first paragraph are quickly explained -
by, for instance, the information that the narrator is an American
living in Europe. But the reliability of his testimony, and the
chronic dissembling of the other characters, are to be crucial issues
in this, the saddest story.
There are, of course, many other ways of beginning a novel, and
readers browsing through this book will have opportunities to
consider some of them, because I have often chosen the opening
paragraph of a novel or story to iUustrate other aspects of the art of
fiction (it spares me from having to summarize the plot). But
perhaps it is worth indicating the range of possibilities here. A
novel may begin with a set-piece description of a landscape or
townscape that is to be the primary setting of the story, the miseen-scène as film criticism terms it: for example, the sombre description of Egdon Heath at the beginning of Thomas Hardy's The
Return of the Native, or E. M. Forster's account of Chandrapore, in
elegant, urbane guide-book prose, at the outset of A Passage to
India. A novel may begin in the middle of a conversation, like
Evelyn Waugh's/4 Handful of Dust, or Ivy Compton-Burnett's idiosyncratic works. It may begin with an arresting self-introduction by
the narrator, "Call me Ishmael" (Herman Melville's Moby Dick),
or with a rude gesture at the literary tradition of autobiography:
"... the first thing you'll probably want to know is where I was
7
BEGINNING
born, and what my lousy childhood was like, and how my parents
were occupied and all before they had me, and all that David
Copperfield kind of crap, but I don't feel like going into it"
(J. D. Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye). A novelist may begin with
a philosophical reflection - "The past is a foreign country: they do
things differently there" (L. P. Hartley, The Go-Between), or pitch
a character into extreme jeopardy with the very first sentence:
"Hale knew they meant to murder him before he had been in
Brighton three hours" (Graham Greene, Brighton Rock). Many
novels begin with a "frame-story" which explains how the main
story was discovered, or describes it being told to a fictional
audience. In Conrad's Heart of Darkness an anonymous narrator
describes Marlow relating his Congo experiences to a circle of
friends sitting on the deck of a cruising yawl in the Thames estuary
("And this also," Marlow begins, "has been one of the dark places
of the earth"). Henry James's The Turn of the Screw consists of a
deceased woman's memoir, which is read aloud to guests at a
country-house party who have been entertaining themselves with
ghost stories, and get, perhaps, more than they bargained for.
Kingsley Amis begins his ghost story, The Green Man, with a witty
pastiche of the The Good Food Guide: "No sooner has one got over
one's surprise at finding a genuine coaching inn less than 40 miles
from London - and 8 from the Mi - than one is marvelling at the
quality of the equally English fare ..." Italo Calvino's If on a
winter's night a traveller begins, "You are about to begin reading
Italo Calvino's new novel, If on a winters night a traveller." James
Joyce's Finnegans Wake begins in the middle of a sentence:
"riverrun, past Eve and Adam's, from swerve of shore to bend of
bay, brings us by a commodius vicus of recirculation back to Howth
Castle and Environs." The missing fragment concludes the book:
"A way a lone a last a loved a long the" - thus returning us to the
beginning again, like the recirculation of water in the environment,
from river to sea to cloud to rain to river, and like the unending
production of meaning in the reading of fiction.
2 The Intrusive Author
With a single drop of ink for a mirror, the Egyptian sorcerer
undertook to reveal to any chance comer far-reaching visions of
the past. This is what I undertake to do for you, reader. With
this drop of ink at the end of my pen, I will show you the roomy
workshop of Jonathan Burge, carpenter and builder in the
village of Hayslope, as it appeared on the 18th of June, in the
year of Our Lord, 1799.
GEORGE ELIOT Adam Bede (1859)
To Margaret - I hope that it will not set the reader against her
- the station of King's Cross had always suggested Infinity. Its
very situation - withdrawn a little behind the facile splendours
of St Paneras - implied a comment on the materialism of life.
Those two great arches, colourless, indifferent, shouldering
between them an unlovely clock, were fit portals for some
eternal adventure, whose issue might be prosperous, but would
certainly not be expressed in the ordinary language of prosperity. If you think this ridiculous, remember that it is not Margaret
who is telling you about it; and let me hasten to add that they
were in plenty of time for the train; that Mrs Munt secured a
comfortable seat, facing the engine, but not too near it; and that
Margaret, on her return to Wickham Place, was confronted with
the following telegram:
All over. Wish I had never written. Tell no one. - Helen.
But Aunt Juley was gone - gone irrevocably, and no power on
earth could stop her.
E. M. FORSTER Homards End (1910)
T HE SIMPLEST WAY of telling a story is in the voice of a storyteller,
which may be the anonymous voice of folk-tale ("Once upon a
time there was a beautiful princess") or the voice of the epic bard
(e.g., Virgil's "Arms and the man I sing") or the confiding,
companionable, sententious authorial voice of classic fiction from
Henry Fielding to George Eliot.
At the beginning of Adam Bede, by a neat rhetorical trick with
the drop of ink, which is both mirror and medium, George Eliot
transforms the act of writing into a kind of speaking, a direct yet
intimate address to the reader, inviting us "over the threshold" of
the novel, and literally over the threshold of Jonathan Burge's
workshop. By implication she contrasts her own, minutely particular, scrupulously historical kind of story-telling, with the dubious
revelations of magic and superstition. The nugget of information
about the techniques of Egyptian sorcerers has no other narrative
function, but is not without interest in itself. We read fiction, after
all, not just for the story, but to enlarge our knowledge and
understanding of the world, and the authorial narrative method is
particularly suited to incorporating this kind of encyclopedic
knowledge and proverbial wisdom.
Around the turn of the century, however, the intrusive authorial
voice fell into disfavour, partly because it detracts from realistic
illusion and reduces the emotional intensity of the experience being
represented, by calling attention to the act of narrating. It also
claims a kind of authority, a God-like omniscience, which our
sceptical and relativistic age is reluctant to grant to anyone. Modern
fiction has tended to suppress or eliminate the authorial voice, by
presenting the action through the consciousness of the characters,
or by handing over to them the narrative task itself. When the
intrusive authorial voice is employed in modern fiction, it's usually
with a certain ironic self-consciousness, as in the passage from
Homards End. This concludes the second chapter, in which the
Bloomsburyite Margaret Schlegel, having heard that her sister
Helen has fallen in love with the younger son of a nouveau-riche
captain of industry, Henry Wilcox, despatches her aunt (Mrs
Munt) to investigate.
Howards End is a Condition-of-England novel, and the sense of
10
THE INTRUSIVE AUTHOR
the country as an organic whole, with a spiritually inspiring,
essentially agrarian past, and a problematic future overshadowed
by commerce and industry, is what gives a representative significance to the characters and their relationships. This theme reaches
its visionary climax in Chapter 19, where, from the high vantagepoint of the Purbeck hills, the question is posed by the author,
whether England belongs to those who have created her wealth and
power or "to those who .. . have somehow seen her, seen the whole
island at once, lying as a jewel in a silver sea, sailing as a ship of souls,
with all the brave world's fleet accompanying her towards eternity."
Both the author and Margaret clearly belong to the visionary
company. The Infinity that Margaret associates with King's Cross
station is equivalent to the eternity towards which the ship of
England is sailing, while the materialism and prosperity on which
King's Cross adversely comments belong to the world of the
Wilcoxes. The solidarity of sentiment between author and heroine
is obvious in the style: only the shift to a past tense ("implied a
comment", "were fit portals") distinguishes Margaret's thoughts,
grammatically, from the authorial voice. Forster is overtly - some
might say, overly - protective towards his heroine.
"To Margaret - I hope that it will not set the reader against
her ..." "If you think this ridiculous, remember that it is not
Margaret who is telling you about it," are risky moves, which
come near to creating the effect Erving Goffman calls "breaking
frame" - when some rule or convention that governs a particular
type of experience is transgressed. These phrases bring into the
open what realistic illusion normally requires us to suppress or
bracket off - our knowledge that we are reading a novel about
invented characters and actions.
This is a device much favoured by postmodern writers, who
disown a naive faith in traditional realism by exposing the nuts and
bolts of their fictional constructs. Compare, for example, this
startling authorial intrusion in the middle of Joseph Heller's Good
as Gold (1980):
Once again Gold found himself preparing to lunch with someone
- Spotty Weinrock - and the thought arose that he was spending
1 1
THE INTRUSIVE AUTHOR
an awful lot of time in this book eating and talking. There was
not much else to be done with him. I was putting him into bed a
lot with Andrea and keeping his wife and children conveniently
in the background .. . Certainly he would soon meet a schoolteacher with four children with whom he would fall madly in
love, and I would shortly hold out to him the tantalizing promise
of becoming the country's first Jewish Secretary of State, a
promise I did not intend to keep.
Forster does not undermine, as radically as that, the illusion of life
generated by his story, and invites our sympathetic interest in the
characters and their fortunes by referring to them as if they are
real people. So what is he trying to achieve by drawing attention to
the gap between Margaret's experience and his narration of it? I
suggest that, by making a playful, self-deprecating reference to his
own rhetorical function, he obtains permission, as it were, to
indulge in those high-flown authorial disquisitions about history
and metaphysics (like the vision of England from the Purbeck hills)
which are scattered throughout the novel, and which he saw as
essential to its thematic purpose. Urbane humour is an effective
way of deflecting and disarming the possible reader-response of
"Come off it? which this kind of authorial generalizing invites.
Forster also makes a joke out of the interruption of narrative
momentum which such passages inevitably entail, by apologetically
"hastening" to return us to the story, and ending his chapter with
a fine effect of suspense.
But suspense is a separate subject.
12
3 Suspense
At first, when death appeared improbable because it had never
visited him before, Knight could think of no future, nor of
anything connected with his past. He could only look sternly at
Nature's treacherous attempt to put an end to him, and strive
to thwart her.
From the fact that the cliff formed the inner face of the
segment of a hollow cylinder, having the sky for a top and the
sea for a bottom, which enclosed the bay to the extent of nearly
a semicircle, he could see the vertical face curving round on
each side of him. He looked far down the façade, and realized
more thoroughly how it threatened him. Grimness was in every
feature, and to its very bowels the inimical shape was desolation.
By one of those familiar conjunctions of things wherewith the
inanimate world baits the mind of man when he pauses in
moments of suspense, opposite Knight's eyes was an imbedded
fossil, standing forth in low relief from the rock. It was a
creature with eyes. The eyes, dead and turned to stone, were
even now regarding him. It was one of the early crustaceans
called Trilobites. Separated by millions of years in their lives,
Knight and this underling seemed to have met in their place of
death. It was the single instance within reach of his vision of
anything that had ever been alive and had had a body to save,
as he himself had now.
THOMAS HARDY A Pair of Blue Eyes (1873)
NOVELS ARE NARRATIVES, and narrative, whatever its medium -
words, film, strip-cartoon - holds the interest of an audience by
raising questions in their minds, and delaying the answers. The
questions are broadly of two kinds, having to do with causality (e.g.
whodunnit?) and temporality (e.g. what will happen next?) each
exhibited in a very pure form by the classic detective story and the
adventure story, respectively. Suspense is an effect especially
associated with the adventure story, and with the hybrid of detective
story and adventure story known as the thriller. Such narratives are
designed to put the hero or heroine repeatedly into situations of
extreme jeopardy, thus exciting in the reader emotions of sympathetic fear and anxiety as to the outcome.
Because suspense is particularly associated with popular forms
of fiction it has often been despised, or at least demoted, by literary
novelists of the modern period. In Ulysses, for instance, James Joyce
superimposed the banal and inconclusive events of a day in modern
Dublin upon the heroic and satisfyingly closed story of Odysseus's
return from the Trojan War, implying that reality is less exciting
and more indeterminate than traditional fiction would have us
believe. But there have been writers of stature, especially in
the nineteenth century, who consciously borrowed the suspensecreating devices of popular fiction and turned them to their own
purposes.
One such was Thomas Hardy, whose first published novel,
Desperate Remedies (1871), was a "sensation-novel" in the style of
Wilkie Collins. His third, A Pair of Blue Eyes (1873), was more
lyrical and psychological, drawing on Hardy's courtship of his first
wife in the romantic setting of north Cornwall, and was the
favourite novel of that master of modern autobiographical fiction,
Marcel Proust. But it contains a classic scene of suspense that was,
as far as I know, entirely invented. The word itself derives from
the Latin word meaning "to hang", and there could hardly be a
situation more productive of suspense than that of a man clinging
by his finger-tips to the face of a cliff, unable to climb to safety -
hence the generic term, "clifïhanger".
About halfway through A Pair of Blue Eyes, the young and
somewhat fickle heroine, Elfride, daughter of a Cornish vicar,
SUSPENSE
takes a telescope to the top of a high cliff overlooking the Bristol
Channel, to view the ship that is bringing home from India the
young architect to whom she is secretly engaged. She is accompanied by Henry Knight, a friend of her stepmother's, a man of
maturer years and intellectual interests, who has made overtures to
her, and to whom she is becoming guiltily attracted. As they sit on
the cliff top, Knight's hat is blown towards the edge, and when he
tries to retrieve it he finds himself unable to climb back up the
slippery one-in-three slope that terminates in a sheer drop of
several hundred feet. Elfride's impetuous efforts to assist him only
make things worse, and as she clambers back to safety she inadvertently sends him sliding further towards disaster. "As he slowly
slid inch by inch .. . Knight made a last desperate dash at the
lowest tuft of vegetation - the last outlying knot of starved herbage
where the rock appeared in all its bareness. It arrested his further
descent. Knight was now literally suspended by his arms ... "
(my italics). Elfride disappears from Knight's view, presumably
seeking assistance, though he knows they are miles from any
human habitation.
What happens next? Will Knight survive, and if so, how?
Suspense can only be sustained by delaying the answers to these
questions. One way of doing this, beloved of the cinema (whose
effects Hardy often anticipated in his intensely visual fiction) would
be to crosscut between the anguish of Knight and the frantic
efforts of the heroine to effect a rescue. But Hardy wants to
surprise Knight (and the reader) with Elfride's response to the
emergency, and therefore restricts the narration of the scene to
Knight's point of view. The suspense is extended by a detailed
account of his thoughts as he clings to the cliff-face, and these
thoughts are those of a Victorian intellectual, on whom recent
discoveries in geology and natural history, especially the work of
Darwin, have made a deep impression. The passage in which
Knight realizes that he is staring into the eyes, "dead and turned
to stone", of a fossilized arthropod millions of years old, is one that
perhaps only Hardy could have written. His work is notable for
such breathtaking shifts of perspective, which display the fragile
human figure dwarfed by a Universe whose vast dimensions of
15
SUSPENSE
space and time were just beginning to be truly apprehended. And
invariably his characters, fallaciously but understandably, read into
this disparity of scale a kind of cosmic malice. Confronting the
dead eyes of the fossil, which have replaced the living, seductive
blue eyes of Elfride in his field of vision, Knight acquires a new
understanding, both poignant and bleak, of his own mortality.
The scene is extended for some pages by the same means:
philosophical reflections on geology, prehistory and the apparent
spitefulness of Nature (the wind whips Knight's clothing, the rain
stings his face, a red sun looks on "with a drunken leer")
punctuated by questions that keep the wire of narrative suspense
taut: "Was he to die? .. . He had hoped for deliverance, but what
could a girl do? He dared not move an inch. Was Death really
stretching out his hand?"
Elfride, of course, rescues him. How she does it I will not
divulge, except to say, by way of encouragement to those of you
who haven't yet got round to reading this delightful book, that it
entails taking off all her clothes.
16
4 Teenage Skaz
Old Sally didn't talk much, except to rave about the Lunts,
because she was busy rubbering and being charming. Then, all
of a sudden, she saw some jerk she knew on the other side of
the lobby. Some guy in one of those very dark grey flannel suits
and one of those checkered vests. Strictly Ivy League. Big deal.
He was standing next to the wall, smoking himself to death and
looking bored as hell. Old Sally kept saying, "I know that boy
from somewhere." She always knew somebody, any place you
took her, or thought she did. She kept saying that till I got bored
as hell, and I said to her, "Why don't you go on over and give
him a big soul kiss, if you know him. Hell enjoy it." She got
sore when I said that. Finally, though, the jerk noticed her and
came over and said hello. You should've seen the way they said
hello. You'd have thought they hadn't seen each other in twenty
years. You'd have thought they'd taken baths in the same
bathtub or something when they were little kids. Old buddyroos.
It was nauseating. The funny part was, they probably met each
other just once, at some phoney party. Finally, when they were
all done slobbering around, old Sally introduced us. His name
was George something - I don't even remember - and he went
to Andover. Big, big deal. You should've seen him when old
Sally asked him how he liked the play. He was the kind of a
phoney that have to give themselves room when they answer
somebody's question. He stepped back, and stepped right on
the lady's foot behind him. He probably broke every toe in her
body. He said the play itself was no masterpiece, but that the
Lunts, of course, were absolute angels. Angels. For Chris sake.
Angels. That killed me. Then he and old Sally started talking
about a lot of people they both knew. It was the phoniest
conversation you ever heard in your life.
j . D. SALINGER The Catcher in the Rye (1951)
17
Skaz is A RATHER APPEALING Russian word (suggesting "jazz" and
"scat", as in "scat-singing", to the English ear) used to designate a
type of first-person narration that has the characteristics of the
spoken rather than the written word. In this kind of novel or
story, the narrator is a character who refers to himself (or herself)
as "I", and addresses the reader as "you". He or she uses
vocabulary and syntax characteristic of colloquial speech, and
appears to be relating the story spontaneously rather than delivering a carefully constructed and polished written account. We
don't so much read it as listen to it, as to a talkative stranger
encountered in a pub or railway carriage. Needless to say, this is
an illusion, the product of much calculated effort and painstaking
rewriting by the "real" author. A narrative style that faithfully
imitated actual speech would be virtually unintelligible, as are
transcripts of recorded conversations. But it is an illusion that can
create a powerful effect of authenticity and sincerity, of truthtelling.
For American novelists skaz was an obvious way to free themselves from the inherited literary traditions of England and Europe.
The crucial impetus was given by Mark Twain. "All modern
American literature comes from one book by Mark Twain called
Huckleberry Finn? said Ernest Hemingway - an overstatement, but
an illuminating one. Twain's masterstroke was to unite a vernacular
colloquial style with a naive, immature narrator, an adolescent boy
who is wiser than he knows, whose vision of the adult world has a
devastating freshness and honesty. This, for example, is Huck's
reaction to different types of Christian faith:
Sometimes the widow would take me one side and talk about
Providence in a way to make a body's mouth water; but maybe
next day Miss Watson would take hold and knock it all down
again. I judged I could see there were two Providences and a
poor chap would stand considerable show with the widow's
Providence, but if Miss Watson's got him there warn't no hope
for him any more.
J. D. Salinger's Holden Caulfield is a literary descendant of
Huck Finn: more educated and sophisticated, the son of affluent
18
TEENAGE SKAZ
New Yorkers, but like Huck a youthful runaway from a world of
adult hypocrisy, venality and, to use one of his own favourite
words, phoniness. What particularly appals Holden is the eagerness
of his peers to adopt that corrupt grownup behaviour. In the course
of the story, Holden takes a girlfriend to a matinée of a Broadway
play starring a famous acting couple, Alfred and Lynn Lunt. "Old
Sally", and the acquaintance she meets in the lobby during the
interval, are described in this extract as acting out a wholly
inauthentic type of adult social behaviour.
The features of Holden's narrative style that make it sound like
speech rather than writing, and a teenager's speech at that, are
easy enough to identify. There's a lot of repetition (because elegant
variation in vocabulary requires careful thought) especially of slang
expressions like "jerk", "bored as hell", "phoney", "big deal",
"killed me" and "old" (an epithet applied promiscuously to anything familiar, whatever its age). Like many young people, Holden
expresses the strength of his feelings by exaggeration, the device
rhetoricians call hyperbole: "smoking himself to death", "You'd
have thought they hadn't seen each other in twenty years",
"slobbering around". The syntax is simple. Sentences are typically
short and uncomplicated. Many of them aren't properly formed,
lacking a finite verb ("Strictly Ivy League. Big deal.") There are
grammatical mistakes such as speakers often make ("He was the
kind of a phoney that have to give themselves room ..."). In longer
sentences, clauses are strung together as they seem to occur to the
speaker, rather than being subordinated to each other in complex
structures.
The informality of Holden's discourse is the guarantee of his
spontaneity and authenticity. It is thrown into relief by the wellformed but pretentious small talk of George: "He said the play
itself was no masterpiece, but that the Lunts, of course, were
absolute angels." This utterance is further downgraded, and made
to seem especially stilted, by being rendered as indirect or reported
speech, in contrast to Holden's exasperated outburst to Sally,
which is quoted directly: "Why don't you go on over and give him
a big soul kiss ..."
It is, as I say, easy enough to describe Holden's style of narration;
TEENAGE SKAZ
but more difficult to explain how it holds our attention and gives
us pleasure for the length of a whole novel. For, make no mistake,
it's the style that makes the book interesting. The story it tells is
episodic, inconclusive and largely made up of trivial events. Yet the
language is, by normal literary criteria, very impoverished. Salinger,
the invisible ventriloquist who speaks to us through Holden, must
say everything he has to say about life and death and ultimate
values within the limitations of a seventeen-year-old New Yorker's
argot, eschewing poetic metaphors, periodic cadences, fine writing
of any kind.
Part of the answer is certainly the derisive humour created by
the application of Holden's "low" language to the polite pretences
of social and cultural life as exhibited by Sally and George. The
formal incorrectness of his English is also a source of humour -
the funniest line in the extract is, "He probably broke every toe in
her body", a distortion of "every bone in her body", and another
hyperbolic expression. A further reason is that Holden's language
implies more than it states. In this extract, for instance, there is
clearly an unacknowledged theme of jealousy on Holden's part,
towards the rival male figure of George, much as Holden claims to
despise his status-conferring Ivy-League clothes and suave manners. The pathos of Holden Caulfield's situation, here and
throughout the book, is more effective for not being explicitly
spoken.
In the last analysis, though, there's something surprisingly poetic
about this prose, a subtle manipulation of the rhythms of colloquial
speech which makes it an effortless pleasure to read, and re-read.
As jazz musicians say, it swings.
20
5 The Epistolary Novel
What I can't bear is that for one moment she recognized my
claims, acknowledged my rights. What makes me want to
hammer my fist on the table .. .
Phone. Ringing. Hold on.
No. Just some student having a breakdown. Yes, what makes
me want to howl at the moon is the thought of her scratching
away down there in London as if nothing had happened. I'd just
like to know that she had lifted her head from her imaginary
world for one moment, and said .. .
Another thought has just occurred to me, though. She may
not be scratching away as if nothing had happened. She may be
putting down some version of the events in the guest room. One
of her maddeningly percipient, odd, crabwise heroines may be
scuttering bizarrely sideways at the sight of some bumptious
young academic's aubergine underpants. No need for one of
your looks, thank you - I have managed to grasp the irony of
this unprompted. It's different, though - she's not writing
privately to a friend of hers in some comfortingly remote
country. She's writing to friends of mine. And enemies of mine.
And colleagues of mine. And students of mine .. .
What? Are my underpants aubergine? Of course they're not
aubergine! Don't you know anything about my taste at all?
But she may be saying they're aubergine! That's what they do,
these people. They embroider, they improve on the truth - they
tell lies.
MICHAEL FRAYN The Trick oflt (1989)
21
NOVELS WRITTEN in the form of letters were hugely popular in the
eighteenth century. Samuel Richardson's long, moralistic and
psychologically acute epistolary novels of seduction, Pamela (1741)
and Clarissa (1747), were landmarks in the history of European
fiction, inspiring many imitators such as Rousseau (La Nouvelle
Hélotse) and Laclos (Les Liaisons dangereuses). Jane Austen's first
draft of Sense and Sensibility was in letter form, but her second
thoughts were prophetic of the decline of the epistolary novel in
the nineteenth century. In the age of the telephone it became a
very rare species indeed, though, as Michael Frayn's The Trick of It
recently demonstrated, not altogether extinct, and well worth
preserving.
The invention of the fax machine may provoke a revival of the
form (the title story of Andrew Davies's Dirty Faxes, 1990, being
perhaps a straw in the wind) but, generally speaking, the modern
epistolary novelist is obliged to separate his correspondents by
some considerable distance to make the convention seem plausible.
Frayn's hero, or antihero, is a nameless thirtysomething British
academic specializing in the work of a contemporary woman
novelist of slightly more mature years, referred to in the text by her
initials, JL. He invites her to speak at his University and, much to
his surprise, is invited afterwards into her guestroom bed. This
event, and the sequel, he describes in a series of letters to an
academic friend based in Australia.
He is divided between infatuation and suspicion. On the one
hand he glories in his intimate relationship with the woman to the
study of whose work he has dedicated his professional career; on
the other hand he fears that she will exploit this relationship by
turning it into new fictions, both publicizing it and misrepresenting
it in the process. He reveres her literary ability, but he also envies
it, and in a paradoxical way resents it. He is vexed that in spite of
possessing her body (and eventually marrying her) he does not at
the same time control her fictive imagination. He ends by vainly
attempting to acquire "the trick of it" (i.e. writing fiction) himself.
It's a familiar satirical theme - the contrast between the critical
and the creative faculties - rendered fresh and amusing by the
artfulness of the telling.
22
THE EPISTOLARY NOVEL
The epistolary novel is a type of first-person narrative, but it has
certain special features not found in the more familiar autobiographical mode. Whereas the story of an autobiography is known
to the narrator before he starts, letters chronicle an ongoing
process; or as Richardson put it: "Much more lively and affecting
. . . must be the style of those who write in the height of a present
distress, the mind tortured by the pangs of uncertainty .. . than the
dry, narrative unanimated style of a person relating difficulties and
danger surmounted can be ... "
The same effect can of course be obtained by using the form of
a journal, but the epistolary novel has two additional advantages.
Firstly, you can have more than one correspondent, and thus show
the same event from different points of view, with quite different
interpretations, as Richardson brilliantly demonstrated in Clarissa.
(For example, Clarissa writes to her friend Miss Howe about an
interview with Lovelace in which he seemed to be showing a
genuine disposition to renounce his licentious past; Lovelace
reports the same conversation to his friend Belford as a stage in
his cunning plot to seduce her.) Secondly, even if you limit
yourself, as Frayn does, to one writer, a letter, unlike a journal, is
always addressed to a specific addressee, whose anticipated
response conditions the discourse, and makes it rhetorically more
complex, interesting and obliquely revealing.
Frayn exploits this latter opportunity to particularly good effect.
His academic is a comically flawed character, full of vanity, anxiety
and paranoia, which he constantly betrays by anticipating or
imagining his Australian friend's reactions ("No need for one of
your looks, thank you ..."). Sometimes the letters read like
dramatic monologues, in which we overhear one side only of a
dialogue, and infer the rest: "What? Are my underpants aubergine?
Of course they're not aubergine! Don't you know anything about
my taste at all?" There, the style approaches skaz, the imitation of
oral narrative I discussed in the previous section; but it can also
comfortably accommodate selfconsciously literary writing, like,
"One of her maddeningly percipient, odd, crabwise heroines may
be scuttering bizarrely sideways at the sight of some bumptious
young academic's aubergine underpants." If that sentence seems a
23
THE EPISTOLARY NOVEL
shade over-written, weighed down with too many adjectives and
adverbs, that is all part of Frayn's purpose. The narrator must
vividly convey the comedy of his plight, but he cannot be allowed
true eloquence, for that would contradict his inability to master the
"trick of it".
Writing, strictly speaking, can only faithfully imitate other writing. Its representation of speech, and still more of non-verbal
events, is highly artificial. But a fictional letter is indistinguishable
from a real letter. A reference to the circumstances in which a
novel is being written, in the text itself, would normally draw
attention to the existence of the "real" author behind the text, and
thus break the fictional illusion of reality, but in the epistolary
novel it contributes to the illusion. I do not, for example, incorporate telephone calls from my agent into the text of my novel-inprogress, but the call from the student which interrupts Frayn's
academic in mid-sentence is both realistic and character-revealing
(he is so self-obsessed that he ignores his pastoral responsibilities).
The pseudo-documentary realism of the epistolary method gave
the early novelists an unprecedented power over their audiences,
comparable to the spell exerted on modern television audiences by
certain soap-operas. While the enormously long Clarissa was being
published, volume by volume, Richardson was frequently begged
by readers not to allow the heroine to die, and many of the first
readers of Pamela supposed it was an actual correspondence, of
which Richardson was merely the editor. Modern readers of
literary fiction will not be thus taken in, of course; but it is a neat
trick on Frayn's part to make his academic complain of the way
novelists turn fact into fiction ("That's what they do, these people.
They embroider, they improve on the truth - they tell lies") in a
kind of novel originally designed to make fiction look like fact.
24
6 Point of View
It must not be supposed that her ladyship's intermissions were
not qualified by demonstrations of another order - triumphal
entries and breathless pauses during which she seemed to take
of everything in the room, from the state of the ceiling to that
of her daughter's boot-toes, a survey that was rich in intentions.
Sometimes she sat down and sometimes she surged about, but
her atttitude wore equally in either case the grand air of the
practical. She found so much to deplore that she left a great
deal to expect, and bristled so with calculation that she seemed
to scatter remedies and pledges. Her visits were as good as an
outfit; her manner, as Mrs Wix once said, as good as a pair of
curtains; but she was a person addicted to extremes - sometimes barely speaking to her child and sometimes pressing this
tender shoot to a bosom cut, as Mrs Wix had also observed,
remarkably low. She was always in a fearful hurry, and the
lower the bosom was cut the more it was to be gathered she was
wanted elsewhere. She usually broke in alone, but sometimes
Sir Claude was with her, and during all the earlier period there
was nothing on which these appearances had had so delightful
a bearing as on the way her ladyship was, as Mrs Wix expressed
it, under the spell. "But isn't she under it!" Maisie used in
thoughtful but familiar reference to exclaim after Sir Claude
had swept mamma away in peals of natural laughter. Not even
in the old days of the convulsed ladies had she heard mamma
laugh so freely as in these moments of conjugal surrender, to
the gaiety of which even a little girl could see she had at last a
right - a little girl whose thoughtfulness was now all happy
selfish meditation on good omens and future fun.
HENRY JAMES What Maisie Knew (1897)
A REAL EVENT may be - and usually is - experienced by more than
one person, simultaneously. A novel can provide different perspectives on the same event - but only one at a time. And even if it
adopts an "omniscient" narrative method, reporting the action
from a God-like altitude, it will usually privilege just one or two of
the possible "points of view" from which the story could be told,
and concentrate on how events affect them. Totally objective, totally
impartial narration may be a worthy aim in journalism or historiography, but a fictional story is unlikely to engage our interest unless
we know whose story it is.
The choice of the point(s) of view from which the story is told is
arguably the most important single decision that the novelist has to
make, for it fundamentally affects the way readers will respond,
emotionally and morally, to the fictional characters and their
actions. The story of an adultery, for instance - any adultery - will
affect us differently according to whether it is presented primarily
from the point of view of the unfaithful person, or the injured
spouse, or the lover - or as observed by some fourth party. Madame
Bovary narrated mainly from the point of view of Charles Bovary
would be a very different book from the one we know.
Henry James was something of a virtuoso in the manipulation of
point of view. In What Maisie Knew he presents a story of multiple
adulteries - or adulteries thinly legitimized by divorce and remarriage - exclusively through the eyes of a child who is affected
by, but largely uncomprehending of them. Maisie's parents divorce
when her father has an affair with her governess, whom he marries.
Maisie's mother, Ida, marries a young admirer, Sir Claude, and
puts Maisie in the charge of another governess, Mrs Wix. Before
long, the step-parents become lovers. Maisie is used by these
selfish and unscrupulous adults as a pawn in their quarrels and an
intermediary in their amorous intrigues. While they pursue their
selfish pleasures, she is confined to a dreary schoolroom with the
frumpish Mrs Wix, who is herself infatuated with Sir Charles, and
mature only in years.
The passage quoted comes early in the book, and concerns Ida's
empty promises, in the honeymoon period of her second marriage,
to improve the quality of Maisie's life. It is narrated from Maisie's
26
POINT OF VIEW
point of view - but not in her own voice, nor in a style that in any
way attempts to imitate a child's discourse. James explained his
reason in the Preface he wrote to the New York Edition: "Small
children have many more perceptions than they have terms to
translate them: their vision is at any moment richer, their apprehension even constantly stronger, than their prompt, their at all
producible, vocabulary." Stylistically, then, What Maisie Knew is
antithetical to The Catcher in the Rye. A naive viewpoint is articulated in a mature style: elegant, complex, subtle.
Nothing is described which Maisie could not plausibly perceive
and, in her own childish terms, understand. Her mamma makes
exciting, energetic proposals for redecorating the schoolroom and
renewing Maisie's wardrobe. Ida's visitations are sudden and brief,
her behaviour volatile and unpredictable. She is usually glamorously dressed, and on her way to some social engagement. She
seems to be much in love with her new husband, and in good
spirits. Maisie observes all these things accurately, but innocently.
She still trusts her mamma, and looks forward hopefully to "future
fun". The reader, however, is under no such illusions, because the
highly sophisticated language in which these observations are
communicated is devastatingly ironic at Ida's expense.
The very first sentence of this paragraph contains most of the
features that place its style at the opposite pole from the language
of a child. It begins with a passive verbal construction ("It must not
be supposed"), proceeds to a double negative ("were not qualified"),
prefers polysyllabic abstract nouns ("intermissions", "demonstrations", "intentions") to concrete or homely words, and favours
elegantly symmetrical pairings ("triumphal entries and breathless
pauses", "from . .. ceiling .. . to .. . boot-toes"). The structure of
the whole sentence is what grammarians call periodic - in other
words, you have to wait till the end, holding the accumulating
information in your head, for the clinching clause that delivers the
main point (which is, that Ida's apparent concern is all show). This
makes reading James a strenuous, but rewarding experience: nod
in mid-sentence, and you are lost.
His fondness for parallelism and antithesis is particularly
marked, and particularly effective, in this excerpt. "Sometimes she
27
POINT OF VIEW
sat down and sometimes she surged about." "She found so much
to deplore that she left a good deal to expect." "Her visits were as
good as an outfit; her manner, as Mrs Wix once said, as good as a
pair of curtains." These deftly balanced structures underline the
contradictions between Ida's promises and her performance, her
pretensions to generosity and her actual selfishness.
One of the commonest signs of a lazy or inexperienced writer of
fiction is inconsistency in handling point of view. A story - let us
say it is the story of John, leaving home for the first time to go to
University, as perceived by John - John packing his bag, taking a
last look round his bedroom, saying goodbye to his parents - and
suddenly, for just a couple of sentences, we are told what his
mother is thinking about the event, merely because it seemed to
the writer an interesting bit of information to put in at that point;
after which the narrative carries on from John's point of view. Of
course, there is no rule or regulation that says a novel may not shift
its point of view whenever the writer chooses; but if it is not done
according to some aesthetic plan or principle, the reader's involvement, the reader's "production" of the meaning of the text, will be
disturbed. We may wonder, consciously or subliminaUy, why, if we
have been told what John's mother was thinking at one point in the
scene, we haven't been given the same access to her mind at other
moments. The mother, who was up to that point an object of
John's perception, has suddenly become a subject in her own right,
but an incompletely realized one. And, if we are given access to
the mother's point of view, why not the father's too?
There is in fact a certain enhancement of intensity and immediacy to be gained by restricting the narrative to a single point of
view - or so James certainly believed. But how artfully he uses Mrs
Wix to convey adult judgments on Ida, judgments of which Maisie
would be incapable, without deviating from Maisie's perspective.
Maisie assimilates the comment about Ida's manner being as good
as a pair of curtains as a kind of compliment, whereas the reader
interprets it as a tart criticism. Likewise Mrs Wix's observation of
Ida's décolletage is motivated by jealousy and moral disapproval,
whereas Maisie, seeing no erotic significance in the exposure of
28
POINT OF VIEW
the female bosom, is struck only by the ratio between the lowness
of the necklines and the duration of her mother's visits.
Later in the story, as Maisie moves from childhood to adolescence, such innocence yields to a dawning awareness of what her
adult relations are up to, but the gap between language and point
of view is never closed, and the question of what Maisie knew
never entirely resolved. "Beauty is truth," said Keats. "Beauty is
information," says the great Russian semiotician, Juri Lotman, a
formula more in tune with the modern mind. Henry James, the
first truly modern novelist in the English language, did not believe
that the ultimate truth about human experience could ever be
established, but developed a fictional technique that loaded every
rift with the ore of information.
29
7 Mystery
"Mr Vickery would go up-country that same evening to take
over certain naval ammunition left after the war in Bloemfontein Fort. No details was ordered to accompany Master Vickery.
He was told off first person singular - as a unit - by himself."
The marine whistled penetratingly. "That's what I thought,"
said Pyecroft. "I went ashore with him an' 'e asked me to walk
through the station. He was clickin' audibly, but otherwise
seemed happy-ish.
" 'You might like to know,' he says, 'that Phyllis's Circus will
be performin' at Worcester tomorrow night. So I shall see 'er
yet once again. You've been very patient with me,' he says.
"'Look here, Vickery,' I said, 'this thing's come to be just as
much as I can stand. Consume your own smoke. I don't want to
know any more.'
"'You!' he said. 'What have you got to complain of? - you've
only had to watch. I'm if,' he says, 'but that's neither here nor
there,' he says. 'I've one thing to say before shakin' 'ands.
Remember,' 'e says - we were just by the admiral's garden-gate
then - 'remember that I am not a murderer, because my lawful
wife died in childbed six weeks after I came out. That much at
least I am clear of,' 'e says.
" 'Then what have you done that signifies?' I said. 'What's the
rest of it?'
"'The rest,' 'e says, 'is silence,' an' he shook 'ands and went
clickin' into Simonstown station."
"Did he stop to see Mrs Bathurst at Worcester?" I asked.
"It's not known. He reported at Bloemfontein, saw the ammunition into the trucks, and then 'e disappeared. Went out -
deserted, if you care to put it so - within eighteen months of his
pension, an' if what 'e said about 'is wife was true he was a free
man as 'e then stood. How do you read it off?"
RUDYARD KIPLING "Mrs Bathurst" (1904)
30
A FEW PAGES EARLIER, discussing a "clifïhanging" episode in
Thomas Hardy's A Pair of Blue Eyes> I revealed that the heroine
eventually rescued the hero, but gave only a clue as to how she
contrived to do so. For readers unfamiliar with the novel I thus
converted an effect of suspense ("what will happen?") to one of
enigma or mystery ("how did she do it?"). These two questions are
the mainsprings of narrative interest and as old as storytelling itself.
One of the staple ingredients of traditional romance, for
example, was mystery concerning the origins and parentage of
characters, invariably resolved to the advantage of the hero and/or
heroine, a plot motif that persists deep into nineteenth-century
fiction and is still common in popular fiction today (in literary
fiction it tends to be used parodically, as in Anthony Burgess's
ÀÎ/F, or my own Small World). Victorian novelists like Dickens and
Wilkie Collins exploited mystery in connection with crimes and
misdemeanours, leading eventually to the evolution of a separate
subgenre, the classic detective story of Conan Doyle and his
successors.
A solved mystery is ultimately reassuring to readers, asserting
the triumph of reason over instinct, of order over anarchy, whether
in the tales of Sherlock Holmes or in the case histories of Sigmund
Freud which bear such a striking and suspicious resemblance to
them. That is why mystery is an invariable ingredient of popular
narrative, whatever its form - prose fiction or movies or television
soaps. Modern literary novelists, in contrast, wary of neat solutions
and happy endings, have tended to invest their mysteries with an
aura of ambiguity and to leave them unresolved. We never discover
for certain what Maisie knew about her adult relations' sexual
behaviour, whether Conrad's Kurtz in Heart of Darkness was a
tragic hero or a human devil, or which of the alternative endings of
John Fowles' The French Lieutenant's Woman is the "true" one.
Kipling's story "Mrs Bathurst" is a famous example of such a
text, and particularly interesting in coming from a writer who
commanded a huge popular audience, most of whom must have
been baffled and exasperated by its elaborate and undecidable
mystifications. By the same token it shows that he was a much
MYSTERY
more selfconscious, artful and experimental writer than he is often
given credit for.
The story is set in South Africa shortly after the end of the Boer
War, and concerns the mysterious disappearance of a British sailor
called Vickery, known as Click on account of his ill-fitting false
teeth. The few known facts of the case emerge gradually in the
course of a conversation between four men who meet by chance
on a railway siding beside a Cape beach. They are: Vickery's
shipmate Pyecroft, a Sergeant of Marines called Pritchard, a
Railway Inspector called Hooper and an anonymous "I" narrator
(by implication, Kipling himself) who frames the story by describing the circumstances of their meeting, and reports their conversation. Pyecroft describes how, in the days immediately preceding
his disappearance, Vickery insisted on taking him with obsessive
frequency to see a cinematic newsreel, part of a travelling entertainment for the troops called Phyllis's Circus, because it contained
a fleeting glimpse of a woman alighting from a train at Paddington
station. She was a widow called Mrs Bathurst, also known to
Pyecroft and Pritchard as the friendly landlady of a pub in New
Zealand, with whom Vickery evidently had a guilty relationship
(though her own character, as Pritchard testifies, was spotless).
PyecrofVs (which is to say Kipling's) remarkable account of this bit
of film - the first he has ever seen - is one of the earliest literary
descriptions of cinema, and encapsulates the elusiveness of the
story's core:
"Then the doors opened and the passengers came out and the
porters got the luggage - just like life. Only - only when anyone
came down too far towards us that was watchin', they walked
right out o' the picture, so to speak .. . Quite slowly, from be'ind
two porters - carryin' a little reticule an' lookin' from side to side
- comes our Mrs Bathurst. There was no mistakin' the walk in a
hundred thousand. She come forward - right forward - she
looked out straight at us with the blindish look which Pritch
alluded to. She walked on and on till she melted out of the
picture - like - like a shadow jumping over a candle ..."
Vickery, convinced that Mrs Bathurst is "looking for him",
32
MYSTERY
becomes so disturbed by this repeated spectacle that his commanding officer is alarmed, and sends him off on a solitary mission on
land, from which he never returns. In the passage quoted, Pyecroft
describes his last sight of Vickery, as he escorted him ashore, and
formulates the enigma of his disappearance.
The effect of mystery is impossible to illustrate with a single
short quotation, because it is maintained by a steady stream of
hints, clues and puzzling data. And in the case of "Mrs Bathurst"
there is additional mystification about what the central mystery is.
The frame story of the meeting of the four men, and their
badinage, arguments and lengthy anecdotal reminiscences, seem
to occupy more textual space than the story of Vickery. The
passage quoted, where the enigma of his disappearance is most
explicitly formulated, and which would have come near the beginning of a Sherlock Holmes story, in fact comes very near the end
of this one.
As Vickery mentions murder only to declare his innocence of it,
so Kipling invokes the detective story only to distance himself from
it. "Inspector" Hooper (the title could be mistaken for a policeman's) has in his waistcoat pocket a set of false teeth, found on one
of two corpses that have been discovered burned to death in a
teak-forest fire up-country. This seems to be forensic evidence of
how Vickery met his end. "Permanent things false teeth are. You
read about 'em in all the murder trials," says Hooper; but at the
end of the story the narrator reports that he "brought his hand
away from his waistcoat pocket - empty." Though attributed to
Hooper's sense of decorum, the empty hand also symbolizes the
frustration of the reader's desire for a solution to the mystery. Even
if we accept the identification of Vickery, and the account of his
end, we do not know what deed drove him to this extremity, or the
identity of the second corpse found beside him (numerous scholars
have debated these questions, and offered ingenious, sometimes
bizarre, and always inconclusive answers). Vickery, like Mrs
Bathurst in the newsreel, has melted out of the picture, jumped
out of the story's frame, and the ultimate truth about him is
irrecoverable.
Why does Kipling tease his readers in this way? The reason is, I
33
MYSTERY
believe, that "Mrs Bathurst" is not essentially a mystery story at all,
in the usual sense of that term, but a tragedy. The quotation from
Hamlet that is Vickery's last recorded speech ("The rest is silence"),
the echo of Marlowe's Faustus ("Why this is hell, nor am I out of
it") in his earlier statement, "You've only had to watch. I'm *"/," are
among several allusions to high tragedy in the story. Here, as
elsewhere, Kipling shows that ordinary humble people, who drop
their aitches and have ill-fitting dentures, are nevertheless capable
of intense emotions, violent passions and crippling guilt; and that
the greatest mystery of all is the human heart.
34
8 Names
. . . and a girl you have not yet been introduced to, who now
comes forward from the shadows of the side aisle, where she
has been lurking, to join the others at the altar rail. Let her be
called Violet, no, Veronica, no Violet, improbable a name as that
is for Catholic girls of Irish extraction, customarily named after
saints and figures of Celtic legend, for I like the connotations of
Violet - shrinking, penitential, melancholy - a diminutive, darkhaired girl, a pale, pretty face ravaged by eczema, fingernails
bitten down to the quick and stained by nicotine, a smartly cut
needlecord coat sadly creased and soiled; a girl, you might guess
from all this evidence, with problems, guilts, hangups.
DAVID LODGE How Far Can You Go? (1980)
And there, for the time being, let us leave Vic Wilcox, while we
travel back an hour or two in time, a few miles in space, to meet
a very different character. A character who, rather awkwardly
for me, doesn't herself believe in the concept of character. That
is to say (a favourite phrase of her own), Robyn Penrose,
Temporary Lecturer in English Literature at the University of
Rummidge, holds that "character" is a bourgeois myth, an
illusion created to reinforce the ideology of capitalism.
DAVID LODGE Nice Work (1988)
"In that case," he said, "I'm happy to oblige you. My name is
Quinn."
"Ah," said Stillman reflectively, nodding his head. "Quinn."
«Yes, Quinn, Q-U-I-N-N."
"I see. Yes, yes, I see. Quinn. Hmmm. Yes. Very interesting.
Quinn. A most resonant word. Rhymes with twin, does it not?"
35
"That's right. Twin."
"And sin, too, if I'm not mistaken."
"You're not."
"And also in - one n - or inn - two. Isn't that so?"
"Exactly."
"Hmmm. Very interesting. I see many possibilities for this
word, this Quinn, this .. . quintessence .. . of quiddity. Quick,
for example. And quill. And quack. And quirk. Hmmm. Rhymes
with grin. Not to speak of kin. Hmmm. Very interesting. And
win. And fin. And din. And gin. And pin. And tin. And bin. Even
rhymes with djinn. Hmmm. And if you say it right, with been.
Hmmm. Yes, very interesting. I like your name enormously, Mr
Quinn. It flies off in so many little directions at once."
"Yes, I've often noticed that myself."
PAUL AUSTER City ofGldSS (1985)
ONE OF THE FUNDAMENTAL principles of structuralism is "the
arbitrariness of the sign", the idea that there is no necessary,
existential connection between a word and its referent. Not "rightly
is they called pigs," as the man said, but by linguistic chance.
Other words serve the same purpose in other languages. As
Shakespeare observed, anticipating Ferdinand de Saussure by
three centuries, "a rose by any other name would smell as sweet."
Proper names have an odd and interesting status in this respect.
Our first names are usually given to us with semantic intent, having
for our parents some pleasant or hopeful association which we may
or may not live up to. Surnames however are generally perceived
as arbitrary, whatever descriptive force they may once have had.
We don't expect our neighbour Mr Shepherd to look after sheep,
or mentally associate him with that occupation. If he is a character
in a novel, however, pastoral and perhaps biblical associations will
inevitably come into play. One of the great mysteries of literary
history is what exactly the supremely respectable Henry James
meant by calling one of his characters Fanny Assingham.
36
NAMES
In a novel names are never neutral. They always signify, if it is
only ordinariness. Comic, satiric or didactic writers can afford to
be exuberantly inventive, or obviously allegorical, in their naming
(Thwackum, Pumblechook, Pilgrim). Realistic novelists favour
mundane names with appropriate connotations (Emma Woodhouse, Adam Bede). The naming of characters is always an
important part of creating them, involving many considerations,
and hesitations, which I can most conveniently illustrate from my
own experience.
The question in the title How Far Can You Go? applies to both
the undermining of traditional religious belief by radical theology
and the undermining of literary convention by the device of
"breaking frame", which I referred to earlier in connection with
the intrusive authorial voice (see Section 2). For an author to
openly change his mind about the name of a character, in midtext, is a particularly blatant admission that the whole story is
"made up", something readers know but usually suppress, as
religious believers suppress their doubts. Nor is it customary for
novelists to explain the connotations of the names they give to their
characters: such suggestions are supposed to work subliminally on
the reader's consciousness.
The invention of the word processor has made it easy to change
the name of a character at a late stage of composition, just by
touching a few keys, but I would have a strong resistance to doing
that to any but the most minor character in my fiction. One may
hesitate and agonize about the choice of a name, but once made, it
becomes inseparable from the character, and to question it seems
to throw the whole project en abîme y as the deconstructionists say.
I was made acutely aware of this in the process of writing Nice
Work.
This novel concerns the relationship between the managing
director of an engineering company and a young academic who is
obliged to "shadow" him. Although it contains some framebreaking asides, as the quotation above illustrates, it is generally a
more straightforwardly realistic novel than How Far Can You Go?
and in naming the characters I was looking for names that would
seem "natural" enough to mask their symbolic appropriateness. I
37
NAMES
named the man Vic Wilcox to suggest, beneath the ordinariness
and Englishness of the name, a rather aggressive, even coarse
masculinity (by association with victor, will and cock), and I soon
settled on Penrose for the surname of my heroine for its contrasting
connotations of literature and beauty (pen and rose). I hesitated for
some time, however, about the choice of her first name, vacillating
between Rachel, Rebecca and Roberta, and I remember that this
held up progress on Chapter Two considerably, because I couldn't
imaginatively inhabit this character until her name was fixed.
Eventually I discovered in a dictionary of names that Robin or
Robyn is sometimes used as a familiar form of Roberta. An
androgynous name seemed highly appropriate to my feminist and
assertive heroine, and immediately suggested a new twist to the
plot: Wilcox would be expecting a male Robin to turn up at his
factory.
About halfway through writing the novel I realized that I had
selected for Vic, perhaps by the same mental route as E. M.
Forster, the surname of the chief male character in Howards End,
Henry Wilcox - another man of business who becomes enamoured
of an intellectual woman. Rather than change my hero's name, I
incorporated Howards End into the intertextual level of the novel,
emphasizing the parallels between the two books - by, for instance,
the legend on the tee-shirt of Robyn's student, Marion, "ONLY
CONNECT" (the epigraph to Forster's novel). And why Marion?
Perhaps because she is a "maid" whose innocence and virtue
Robyn (cf. Robin Hood) is anxious to protect, perhaps because the
young, as it were potential, George Eliot (who figures prominently
in Robyn's teaching) was called Marian Evans. I say "perhaps"
because authors are not always conscious of their motivation in
these matters.
The passage quoted from Paul Auster's City of Glass, one of the
three remarkable novellas that make up his New York Trilogy,
pushes the connotative significance of names in literary texts to an
absurdist extreme. These three stories subject the clichés and
stereotypes of the gumshoe detective story to a postmodernist
scepticism about identity, causality and meaning. Quinn himself
38
NAMES
writes detective stories under the name of William Wilson, which
happens to be the name of the eponymous hero of Poe's famous
tale about a man in pursuit of his Doppelgànger (see Section 47).
Misidentified as "Paul Auster of the Auster Detective Agency",
Quinn is seduced into acting the part, tailing a former professor
called Stillman who has recently been released from prison and is
feared by the client of Quinn, alias Wilson, alias Auster. Stillman
has written a book in which he concludes that the arbitrariness of
the sign was a consequence of Original Sin.
Adam's one task in the Garden had been to invent language, to
give each creature and thing its name. In that state of innocence,
his tongue had gone straight to the quick of the world. His words
had not been merely appended to the things he saw, they had
revealed their essences, had literally brought them to life. A thing
and its name were interchangeable. After the fall, this was no
longer true. Names became detached from things; words
devolved into a collection of arbitrary signs; language had been
severed from God. The story of the Garden, therefore, not only
records the fall of man, but the fall of language.
As if to demonstrate the point, Stillman deconstructs Quinn's
name, when they eventually meet, with a flow of whimsical free
association. The connotations of Quinn stop nowhere, and therefore become useless to the reader as an interpretative key.
In the second story, Ghosts, all the characters have the names of
colours.
First of all there is Blue. Later there is White, and then there is
Black, and before the beginning there is Brown. Brown broke
him in, Brown taught him the ropes, and when Brown grew old,
Blue took over. That is how it begins .. . The case seems simple
enough. White wants Blue to follow a man named Black and to
keep an eye on him for as long as possible.
By this manifestly artificial naming system, Auster again affirms
the arbitrariness of language, introducing it (arbitrariness) where it
doesn't usually belong (fictional names). In the third story, The
39
NAMES
Locked Room, the narrator confesses how he faked government
census returns, parodying the activity of a novelist:
Most of all there was the pleasure of making up names. At times
I had to curb my impulse towards the outlandish - the fiercely
comical, the pun, the dirty word - but for the most part I was
content to play within the bounds of realism.
In all three stories the impossibility of pinning the signifier to the
signified, of recovering that mythical, prelapsarian state of innocence in which a thing and its name were interchangeable, is
replicated on the level of plot by the futility of the routines of
detection. Each narrative ends with the death or despair of the
detective-figure, faced with an insoluble mystery, lost in a labyrinth
of names.
40
9 The Stream of Consciousness
Mrs Dalloway said she would buy the flowers herself. For Lucy
had her work cut out for her. The doors would be taken off
their hinges; Rumpelmayer's men were coming. And then,
thought Clarissa Dalloway, what a morning - fresh as if issued
to children on a beach.
What a lark! What a plunge! For so it had always seemed to
her when, with a little squeak of the hinges, which she could
hear now, she had burst open the French windows and plunged
at Bourton into the open air. How fresh, how calm, stiller than
this of course, the air was in the early morning; like the flap of
a wave; the kiss of a wave; chill and sharp and yet (for a girl of
eighteen as she then was) solemn, feeling as she did, standing
there at the open window, that something awful was about to
happen; looking at the flowers, at the trees with the smoke
winding off them and the rooks rising, falling; standing and
looking until Peter Walsh said, "Musing among the vegetables?"
- was that it? - "I prefer men to cauliflowers" - was that it? He
must have said it at breakfast one morning when she had gone
out on to the terrace - Peter Walsh. He would be back from
India one of these days, June or July, she forgot which, for his
letters were awfully dull; it was his sayings one remembered;
his eyes, his pocket-knife, his smile, his grumpiness and, when
millions of things had utterly vanished - how strange it: was! - a
few saying's like this about cabbages.
VIRGINIA WOOLF Mrs Dalloway (1925)
"THE STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS" was a phrase coined by William
James, psychologist brother of the novelist, Henry, to characterize
the continuous flow of thought and sensation in the human mind.
Later it was borrowed by literary critics to describe a particular
kind of modern fiction which tried to imitate this process, exemplified by, among others, James Joyce, Dorothy Richardson and
Virginia Woolf.
The novel always was, of course, notable for its interiorized
rendering of experience. Cogito, ergo sum ("I think, therefore I am")
could be its motto, though the novelist's cogito includes not only
reasoning but also emotions, sensations, memories and fantasies.
Defoe's autobiographers, and Richardson's letter-writers, at the
beginning of the novel's development as a literary form, were
obsessively introspective. The classic nineteenth-century novel,
from Jane Austen to George Eliot, combined the presentation of
its characters as social beings with a subtle and sensitive analysis of
their moral and emotional inner lives. Towards the turn of the
century, however (you can see it happening in Henry James), reality
was increasingly located in the private, subjective consciousness of
individual selves, unable to communicate the fullness of their
experience to others. It has been said that the stream-of-consciousness novel is the literary expression of solipsism, the philosophical
doctrine that nothing is certainly real except one's own existence;
but we could equally well argue that it offers us some relief from
that daunting hypothesis by offering us imaginative access to the
inner lives of other human beings, even if they are fictions.
Undoubtedly this kind of novel tends to generate sympathy for
the characters whose inner selves are exposed to view, however
vain, selfish or ignoble their thoughts may occasionally be; or, to
put it another way, continuous immersion in the mind of a wholly
unsympathetic character would be intolerable for both writer and
reader. Mrs Dalloway is a particularly interesting case in point,
because its heroine also appeared as a minor character in Virginia
Woolf 's first novel, The Voyage Out (1915). There a more traditional authorial narrative method is used to give a very satirical
and prejudicial portrait of Clarissa Dalloway and her husband, as
snobbish and reactionary members of the British upper class.
42
THE STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS
Here, for instance, is Mrs Dalloway in her earlier incarnation
preparing to be introduced to a scholar called Ambrose and his
wife:
Mrs Dalloway, with her head a little on one side, did her best to
recollect Ambrose - was it a surname? - but failed. She was
made slightly uneasy by what she had heard. She knew that
scholars married anyone - girls they met in farms on reading
parties; or little suburban women who said disagreeably, "Of
course I know it's my husband you want, not me" But Helen
came in at that point, and Mrs Dalloway saw with relief that
though slightly eccentric in appearance, she was not untidy, held
herself well, and her voice had restraint in it, which she held to
be the sign of a lady.
We are shown what Mrs Dalloway is thinking, but the style in
which her thoughts are reported puts them and her at an ironic
distance, and passes silent judgment on them. There is evidence
that when Virginia Woolf began writing about this character again,
it was originally with the same quasi-satirical intention; but by that
time she had become committed to the stream-of-consciousness
novel, and the method inevitably led her into a much more
sympathetic portrait of Clarissa Dalloway.
There are two staple techniques for representing consciousness
in prose fiction. One is interior monologue, in which the grammatical subject of the discourse is an "I", and we, as it were, overhear
the character verbalizing his or her thoughts as they occur. I shall
discuss this method in the next section. The other method, called
free indirect style, goes back at least as far as Jane Austen, but was
employed with ever-increasing scope and virtuosity by modern
novelists like Woolf. It renders thought as reported speech (in the
third person, past tense) but keeps to the kind of vocabulary that is
appropriate to the character, and deletes some of the tags, like "she
thought," "she wondered," "she asked herself" etc. that a more
formal narrative style would require. This gives the illusion of
intimate access to a character's mind, but without totally surrendering authorial participation in the discourse.
"Mrs Dalloway said she would buy the flowers herself," is the
43
THE STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS
first sentence of the novel: the statement of an authorial narrator,
but an impersonal and inscrutable one, who does not explain who
Mrs Dalloway is or why she needed to buy flowers. This abrupt
plunging of the reader into the middle of an ongoing life (we
gradually piece together the heroine's biography by a process of
inference) typifies the presentation of consciousness as a "stream".
The next sentence, "For Lucy had her work cut out for her,"
moves the focus of the narrative into the character's mind by
adopting free indirect style, omitting an intrusive authorial tag,
such as "Mrs Dalloway reflected"; referring to the maid familiarly
by her first name, as Mrs Dalloway herself would, not by her
function; and using a casual, colloquial expression, "cut out for
her", that belongs to Mrs Dalloway's own style of speech. The
third sentence has the same form. The fourth moves back slightly
towards an authorial manner to inform us of the heroine's full
name, as well as her pleasure in the fine summer morning: "And
then, thought Clarissa Dalloway, what a morning - fresh as if issued
to children on a beach." (Italics mine.)
The ejaculations, "What a lark! What a plunge!" that follow look
superficially like interior monologue, but they are not the mature
heroine's responses to the morning in Westminster as she goes out
to buy flowers. She is remembering herself at the age of eighteen
remembering herself as a child. Or, to put it another way, the
image "fresh as if issued to children on a beach", evoked by the
Westminster morning, reminds her of how similar metaphors, of
children larking in the sea, would come to mind as she "plunged"
into the fresh, calm air of a summer morning, "like the flap of a
wave; the kiss of a wave," at Bourton (some country house, we
presume), where she would meet someone called Peter Walsh (the
first hint of anything like a story). The actual and the metaphorical,
time present and times past, interweave and interact in the long,
meandering sentences, each thought or memory triggering the
next. Realistically, Clarissa Dalloway cannot always trust her
memory: " 'Musing among the vegetables?' - was that it? - 'I prefer
men to cauliflowers' - was that it?"
Meandering the sentences may be, but they are, apart from the
licence of free indirect style, well-formed and elegantly cadenced.
44
THE STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS
Virginia Woolf has smuggled some of her own lyrical eloquence
into Mrs Dalloway's stream of consciousness without its being
obvious. Transpose these sentences into the first person, and they
would sound far too literary and considered to pass for a transcription of someone's random thoughts. They would sound indeed like
writing, in a rather precious style of autobiographical reminiscence:
What a lark! What a plunge! For so it always seemed to me when,
with a little squeak of the hinges, which I can hear now, I burst
open the French windows and plunged at Bourton into the open
air. How fresh, how calm, stiller than this of course, the air was
in the early morning; like the flap of a wave; the kiss of a wave;
chill and sharp and yet (for a girl of eighteen as I then was)
solemn, feeling as I did, standing there at the open window, that
something awful was about to happen .. .
The interior monologues of Virginia Woolf 's later novel, The
Waves, suffer from such artificiality, to my mind. James Joyce was
a more resourceful exponent of that way of rendering the stream
of consciousness.
45
io Interior Monologue
On the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey. Not
there. In the trousers I left off. Must get it. Potato I have. Creaky
wardrobe. No use disturbing her. She turned over sleepily that
time. He pulled the halldoor to after him very quietly, more, till
the footleaf dropped gently over the threshold, a limp lid.
Looked shut. All right till I come back anyhow.
He crossed to the bright side, avoiding the loose cellarflap of
number seventyfive. The sun was nearing the steeple of
George's church. Be a warm day I fancy. Specially in these black
clothes feel it more. Black conducts, reflects (refracts is it?), the
heat. But I couldn't go in that light suit. Make a picnic of it. His
eyelids sank quietly often as he walked in happy warmth.
#
They came down the steps from Leahy's terrace prudently,
Frauenzimmer. and down the shelving shore flabbily their
splayed feet sinking in the silted sand. Like me, like Algy,
coming down to our mighty mother. Number one swung lourdily her midwife's bag, the other's gamp poked in the beach.
From the liberties, out for the day. Mrs Florence MacCabe,
relict of the late Patk MacCabe, deeply lamented, of Bride
Street. One of her sisterhood lugged me squealing into life.
Creation from nothing. What has she in the bag? A misbirth
with a trailing navelcord, hushed in ruddy wool. The cords of
all link back, strandentwining cable of all flesh. That is why
mystic monks. Will you be as gods? Gaze in your omphalos.
Hello. Kinch here. Put me on to Ed en ville. Aleph, alpha: nought,
nought, one.
#
Yes because he never did a thing like that before as ask to get
his breakfast in bed with a couple of eggs since the City Arms
hotel when he used to be pretending to be laid up with a sick
voice doing his highness to make himself interesting to that old
faggot Mrs Riordan that he thought he had a great leg of and
she never left us a farthing all for masses for herself and her
soul greatest miser ever was actually afraid to lay out 4a for her
methylated spirit telling me all her ailments she had too much
old chat in her about politics and earthquakes and the end of
the world let us have a bit of fun first God help the world if all
the women were her sort down on bathingsuits and lownecks of
course nobody wanted her to wear I suppose she was pious
because no man would look at her twice
JAMES JOYCE Ulysses (1922)
THE TITLE of James Joyce's Ulysses is a clue - the only absolutely
unmissable one in the entire text - that its account of a fairly
ordinary day in Dublin, 16 June 1904, re-enacts, mimics or
travesties the story of Homer's Odyssey (whose hero, Odysseus, was
called Ulysses in Latin). Leopold Bloom, middle-aged Jewish
advertising canvasser, is the unheroic hero, whose wife Molly falls
far short of her prototype, Penelope, in faithfulness to her spouse.
After crossing and recrossing the city of Dublin on various
inconclusive errands, as Odysseus was blown around the Mediterranean by adverse winds on his way home from the Trojan war,
Bloom meets and paternally befriends Stephen Dedalus, the
Telemachus of the tale, and a portrait of Joyce's own, younger self
- a proud, penniless aspirant writer, alienated from his father.
Ulysses is a psychological rather than a heroic epic. We become
acquainted with the principal characters not by being told about
them, but by sharing their most intimate thoughts, represented as
silent, spontaneous, unceasing streams of consciousness. For the
reader, it's rather like wearing earphones plugged into someone's
brain, and monitoring an endless tape-recording of the subject's
impressions, reflections, questions, memories and fantasies, as they
are triggered either by physical sensations or the association of
ideas. Joyce was not the first writer to use interior monologue (he
credited the invention to an obscure French novelist of the late
47
INTERIOR MONOLOGUE
nineteenth century, Edouard Dujardin), nor the last, but he
brought it to a pitch of perfection that makes other exponents,
apart from Faulkner and Beckett, look rather feeble in comparison.
Interior monologue is indeed a very difficult technique to use
successfully, all too apt to impose a painfully slow pace on the
narrative and to bore the reader with a plethora of trivial detail.
Joyce avoids these pitfalls partly by his sheer genius with words,
which renders the most commonplace incident or object as riveting
as if we had never encountered them before, but also by cleverly
varying the grammatical structure of his discourse, combining
interior monologue with free indirect style and orthodox narrative
description.
The first extract concerns Leopold Bloom leaving his house
early in the morning to buy a pork kidney for his breakfast. "On
the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey" describes
Bloom's action from his point of view, but grammatically implies a
narrator, however impersonal. "Not there" is interior monologue,
a contraction of Bloom's unuttered thought, "It's not there." The
omission of the verb conveys the instantaneousness of the discovery, and the slight sense of panic it entails. He remembers that the
key is in another pair of trousers which he "left off" because he is
wearing a black suit to attend a funeral later in the day. "Potato I
have" is totally baffling to the first-time reader: in due course we
discover that Bloom superstitiously carries a potato around with
him as a kind of talisman. Such puzzles add to the authenticity of
the method, for we should not expect to find another person's
stream of consciousness totally transparent. Bloom decides against
returning to his bedroom to fetch the key because the creaky
wardrobe door might disturb his wife, still dozing in bed - an
indication of his essentially kind and considerate nature. He refers
to Molly simply as "her" (and in the last sentence as "she") because
his wife looms so large in his consciousness that he does not need
to identify her to himself by name - as a narrator, with a reader's
interests in mind, would naturally do.
The next, brilliantly mimetic sentence, describing how Bloom
pulled the house door almost shut, returns to the narrative mode,
but it maintains Bloom's point of view and remains within his
INTERIOR MONOLOGUE
vocabulary range, so that a fragment of interior monologue,
"more", can be incorporated in it without jarring. The past tense
of the next sentence "Looked shut" marks it as free indirect style,
and provides an easy transition back to interior monologue: "All
right till I come back anyhow," in which "All right" is a contraction
of "That will be all right." None of the sentences in this extract,
apart from the narrative ones, are grammatically correct or complete by strict standards, because we do not think, or even speak
spontaneously, in well-formed sentences.
The second quotation, describing Stephen Dedalus catching
sight of two women as he walks on the beach, displays the same
variety of discourse types. But whereas Bloom's thoughtstream is
practical, sentimental and, in an uneducated fashion, scientific (he
gropes uncertainly for the correct technical term for the reaction
of black clothing to heat) Stephen's is speculative, witty, literary -
and much more difficult to follow. "Algy" is a familiar reference to
the poet Algernon Swinburne, who called the sea "a great sweet
mother", and "lourdily" is either a literary archaism or a coinage
influenced by Stephen's bohemian domicile in Paris (lourd being
French for "heavy"). Mrs MacCabe's calling prompts Stephen's
writerly imagination to evoke his own birth with startling concreteness: "One of her sisterhood lugged me squealing into life,"
another miraculously mimetic sentence that makes you feel the
newborn infant's slippery body in the midwife's hands. The slightly
morbid fancy that Mrs MacCabe has a miscarried foetus in her
bag diverts Stephen's stream of consciousness into a complex and
fantastical reverie in which the navel cord is likened to a cable
linking all human beings to their first mother, Eve, which suggests
why oriental monks contemplate their navels (Greek, omphalos)
though Stephen does not complete the thought, his mind leaping
on to another metaphorical conceit, the collective human navelcord
as a telephone cable, by means of which Stephen (nicknamed
Kinch by his associate, Buck Mulligan) whimsically imagines
himself dialling the Garden of Eden.
Joyce did not write the whole of Ulysses in the stream-ofconsciousness form. Having taken psychological realism as far as it
would go, he turned, in later chapters of his novel, to various kinds
49
INTERIOR MONOLOGUE
of stylization, pastiche and parody: it is a linguistic epic, as well as
a psychological one. But he ended it with the most famous of all
interior monologues, Molly Bloom's.
In the last "episode" (as the chapters of Ulysses are called),
Leopold Bloom's wife, Molly, who has hitherto been an object of
his and other characters' thoughts, observations and memories,
becomes a subject, a centre of consciousness. During the afternoon
she has been unfaithful to Leopold with an impresario called
Blazes Boylan (she is a semi-professional singer). Now it is late at
night. Bloom has come to bed, disturbing Molly, and she lies
beside him, half-awake, drowsily remembering the events of the
day, and of her past life, especially her experiences with her
husband and various lovers. The Blooms have not in fact enjoyed
normal sexual relations for many years, following the trauma of
losing their son in infancy, but they remain tied to each other by
familiarity, a kind of exasperated affection and even jealousy.
Bloom's day has been overcast by his awareness of Molly's
assignation, and her long, almost entirely unpunctuated monologue
begins with the speculation that Bloom must have had some erotic
adventure, since he has uncharacteristically asserted himself by
demanding that she bring him his breakfast in bed the next
morning, something he hasn't done since a distant time when he
pretended to be an invalid in order to impress a widow called Mrs
Riordan (an aunt of Stephen Dedalus, in fact, one of many little
coincidences that knit together the apparently random events of
Ulysses) from whom he was hoping to receive a legacy, although in
fact she left them nothing, all her money going to pay for masses
to be said for the repose of her soul .. . (In paraphrasing Molly
Bloom's soliloquy one tends to fall into her own freeflowing style.)
Whereas Stephen's and Bloom's streams of consciousness are
stimulated and made to change course by their sense-impressions,
Molly, lying in the darkness, with only the occasional noise from
the street to distract her, is borne along by her own memories, one
memory triggering another by some kind of association. And
whereas association in Stephen's consciousness tends to be metaphorical (one thing suggests another by resemblance, often of an
arcane or fanciful kind) and in Bloom's métonymie (one thing
50
INTERIOR MONOLOGUE
suggests another because they are connected by cause and effect,
or by contiguity in space/time), association in Molly's consciousness is simply literal: one breakfast in bed reminds her of another,
as one man in her life reminds her of another. As thoughts of
Bloom lead to thoughts of other lovers, it is not always easy to
determine to whom the pronoun "he" refers.
ii Defamiliarization
This picture, I say, seemed to consider itself the queen of the
collection.
It represented a woman, considerably larger, I thought, than
the life. I calculated that this lady, put into a scale of magnitude
suitable for the reception of a commodity of bulk, would
infallibly turn from fourteen to sixteen stone. She was, indeed,
extremely well fed; very much butcher's meat - to say nothing
of bread, vegetables, and liquids - must she have consumed to
attain that breadth and height, that wealth of muscle, that
affluence of flesh. She lay half-reclined on a couch - why, it
would be difficult to say; broad daylight blazed round her. She
appeared in hearty health, strong enough to do the work of two
plain cooks; she could not plead a weak spine; she ought to have
been standing, or at least sitting bolt upright. She had no
business to lounge away the noon on a sofa. She ought likewise
to have worn decent garments - a gown covering her properly,
which was not the case. Out of abundance of material - sevenand-twenty yards, I should say, of drapery - she managed to
make inefficient raiment. Then for the wretched untidiness
surrounding her there could be no excuse. Pots and pans -
perhaps I ought to say vases and goblets - were rolled here and
there on the foreground; a perfect rubbish of flowers was mixed
amongst them, and an absurd and disorderly mass of curtain
upholstery smothered the couch and cumbered the floor. On
referring to the catalogue, I found that this notable production
bore the name "Cleopatra".
CHARLOTTE BRONTE Vilktte (1853)
DEFAMILIARIZATION is the usual English translation of ostranenie
(literally, "making strange"), another of those invaluable critical
terms coined by the Russian Formalists. In a famous essay first
published in 1917, Victor Shklovsky argued that the essential
purpose of art is to overcome the deadening effects of habit by
representing familiar things in unfamiliar ways:
Habitualization devours works, clothes, furniture, one's wife, and
the fear of war .. . And art exists that one may recover the
sensation of life; it exists to make one feel things, to make the
stony stony. The purpose of art is to impart the sensation of
things as they are perceived and not as they are known.
This theory vindicates the distortions and dislocations of modernist
writing, but it applies equally well to the great exponents of the
realistic novel. One of Shklovsky's examples was a passage where
Tolstoy effectively ridicules opera by describing a performance as
if through the eyes of someone who has never seen or heard an
opera before (e.g., "Then still more people came running out and
began to drag away the maiden who had been wearing a white
dress but who now wore one of sky blue. They did not drag her off
immediately, but sang with her for a long time before dragging her
away"). Charlotte Brontë does something similar to salon art in the
passage quoted here from Villette.
Villette is the fictional name of Brussels, where the heroine and
narrator, Lucy Snowe, is obliged to earn her bread as teacher in a
girls' boarding-school. She is secretly and hopelessly in love with
an English doctor, John Bretton, who escorts her to art galleries
but leaves her to explore them alone - an arrangement which suits
her independent spirit.
The painting under observation here belongs to a recognizable
type in which the lavish depiction of the female nude is, as it were,
rendered respectable by its attachment to a mythical or historical
source, by the intimidating grandeur of its scale, and by various
other coded signs that it belongs to high culture. The contradictions in such a spectacle were, of course, much more marked in
Charlotte Bronte's own day, when women were obliged to keep
almost every inch of their bodies covered at all times, than they are
53
DEFAMILIARIZATION
in ours. Through her heroine, Charlotte Brontë exposes these
contradictions, and the essential falsity (as she saw it) of this kind
of art, by describing the painting literally and truthfully, putting it
in the context of the real life of women, and ignoring the discourse
of art history and connoisseurship within which it is "habitually"
perceived.
Thus the monumental size of the female figure and the superfluity of drapery about her, facts ignored or suppressed in conventional art appreciation, are brought into the open by an empirical,
quasi-scientific calculation of weight and quantity: "from fourteen
to sixteen stone .. . seven-and-twenty yards, I should say, of
drapery." We have become so familiar with the use of drapery in
classical paintings of the nude, billowing round the figure in
convoluted folds without covering anything except perhaps a few
inches of pubic flesh, that we no longer perceive its essential
artificiality. The same applies to the picturesque arrangement of
various objects and utensils in the foreground of such paintings -
why are those goblets invariably overturned on the floor, when the
personages depicted would have had plenty of opportunity, or
servants, to pick them up? Lucy's unblinking scrutiny raises
questions habitually repressed in the ritual of gallery-visiting. The
languorous reclining pose of the woman, with its tacit erotic
invitation, is ridiculed by remarking on its incongruity with the
time of day depicted, and the lack of any evidence of the subject's
physical debility. And by holding back the title, "Cleopatra", till
the end of her description, Lucy implies the arbitrariness and
spuriousness of the historical/mythological justification claimed by
the painting, which could just as well have been called "Dido" or
"Delilah", or (more honestly) "Odalisque".
In itself, the description of the painting has no narrative content;
the story "pauses" so that it may be delivered. But it does have a
narrative function. Firstly, it contributes to the characterization of
Lucy Snowe, a young woman of strong, independent and unconventional views, though her lack of beauty, status or wealth oblige
her to keep them to herself most of the time. Secondly, it provokes
an interesting scene with M. Paul Emmanuel, the testy, unprepossessing, but vital schoolmaster at Lucy's school, whom she in due
54
DEFAMILIARIZATION
course recognizes as a much more fulfilling mate than the superficially eligible Dr John. Paul Emmanuel discovers her in front of
the "Cleopatra" and is shocked - a reaction which shows him as
immune to the cant of connoisseurship (he is not impressed by the
painting's high cultural pretensions), but in thrall to gender
stereotyping (he does not think it suitable for contemplation by a
young lady). He drags Lucy off to look at another painting, of three
sentimental scenes in the life of a virtuous woman, which she finds
as absurd and irrelevant as the Cleopatra.
Villette was the last novel Charlotte Brontë wrote before her
untimely death, and her most mature. It has become a key text in
contemporary feminist criticism, for reasons that are very obvious
in this passage. But in defamiliarizing the representation of women
in historical painting Charlotte Brontë was making a point about
art as well as about sexual politics, and specifically about her own
art, which had gradually and painfully emancipated itself from the
falsifications and wish-fulfilments of melodrama and romance. "It
seemed to me," says Lucy Snowe just before this passage, "that an
original and good picture was just as scarce as an original and good
book." Villette is such a book.
What do we mean - it is a common term of praise - when we
say that a book is "original"? Not, usually, that the writer has
invented something without precedent, but that she has made us
"perceive" what we already, in a conceptual sense, "know", by
deviating from the conventional, habitual ways of representing
reality. Defamiliarization, in short, is another word for "originality".
I shall have recourse to it again in these glances at the art of fiction.
55
12 The Sense of Place
In LA, you can't do anything unless you drive. Now I can't do
anything unless I drink. And the drink-drive combination, it
really isn't possible out there. If you so much as loosen your
seatbelt or drop your ash or pick your nose, then it's an Alcatraz
autopsy with the questions asked later. Any indiscipline, you
feel, any variation, and there's a bullhorn, a set of scope sights,
and a coptered pig drawing a bead on your rug.
So what can a poor boy do? You come out of the hotel, the
Vraimont. Over boiling Watts the downtown skyline carries a
smear of God's green snot. You walk left, you walk right, you
are a bank rat on a busy river. This restaurant serves no drink,
this one serves no meat, this one serves no heterosexuals. You
can get your chimp shampooed, you can get your dick tattooed,
twenty-four hour, but can you get lunch? And should you see a
sign on the far side of the street flashing BEEF - BOOZE - NO
STRINGS, then you can forget it. The only way to get across
the road is to be born there. All the ped-xing signs say DONT
WALK, all of them, all the time. That is the message, the
content of Los Angeles: don't walk. Stay inside. Don't walk.
Drive. Don't walk. Run! I tried the cabs. No use. The cabbies
are all Satumians who aren't even sure whether this is a right
planet or a left planet. The first thing you have to do, every trip,
is teach them how to drive.
MARTIN AMIS Money (1984)
As WILL BE EVIDENT to the reader by now, my division of the art of
fiction into various "aspects" is somewhat artificial. Effects in
fiction are plural and interconnected, each drawing on and contributing to all the others. The passage I have selected from Martin
56
Amis's Money as an example of the description of place could have
served equally well to illustrate Skaz or Defamiliarization, as well
as several topics not yet broached. Which is another way of saying
that description in a good novel is never just description.
The sense of place was a fairly late development in the history
of prose fiction. As Mikhail Bakhtin observed, the cities of classical
romance are interchangeable backcloths for the plot: Ephesus
might as well be Corinth or Syracuse, for all we are told about
them. The early English novelists were scarcely more specific
about place. London in Defoe's or Fielding's novels, for instance,
lacks the vivid visual detail of Dickens's London. When Tom Jones
arrives at the capital in search of his beloved Sophia, the narrator
tells us that he
was an entire stranger in London; and as he happened to arrive
first in a quarter of the town, the inhabitants of which have very
little intercourse with the householders of Hanover or Grosvenor
Square (for he entered through Gray's Inn Lane) so he rambled
about for some time, before he could even find his way to those
happy mansions, where Fortune segregates from the vulgar those
.. . whose ancestors being born in better days, by sundry kinds
of merit, have entailed riches and honour on their posterity.
London is described entirely in terms of the variations of class and
status in its inhabitants, as interpreted by the author's ironical
vision. There is no attempt to make the reader "see" the city, or to
describe its sensory impact on a young man up from the country
for the first time. Compare Dickens's description of Jacob's Island
in Oliver Twist:
To reach this place, the visitor has to penetrate through a maze
of close, narrow, and muddy streets, thronged by the roughest
and poorest of the waterside people .. . The cheapest and least
delicate provisions are heaped in the shops; the coarsest and
commonest articles of wearing apparel dangle at the salesman's
door, and stream from the house-parapet and windows .. . he
walks beneath tottering housefronts projecting over the pavement, dismantled walls that seem to totter as he passes, chimneys
half-crushed, half-hesitating to fall, windows guarded by rusty
57
THE SENSE OF PLACE
iron bars that time and dirt have almost eaten away, every
imaginable sign of desolation and neglect.
Tom Jones was published in 1749; Oliver Twist in 1838. What
intervened was the Romantic movement, which pondered the effect
of milieu on man, opened people's eyes to the sublime beauty of
landscape and, in due course, to the grim symbolism of cityscapes
in the Industrial Age.
Martin Amis is a late exponent of the Dickensian tradition of
urban Gothic. His fascinated and appalled gaze at the postindustrial city mediates an apocalyptic vision of culture and society
in a terminal state of decay. As with Dickens, his settings often
seem more animated than his characters, as if the life has been
drained out of people to re-emerge in a demonic, destructive form
in things: streets, machines, gadgets.
The narrator of Money, John Self (Amis also cultivates a
Dickensian playfulness with names) is not exactly a complex or
sympathetic character. A scrofulous yuppie, addicted to fast food
and fast cars, junk food and pornography, he commutes between
England and America in his efforts to tie up a film deal that will
make him rich. London and New York are the chief locations of
the action, with the latter having the edge in physical and moral
squalor, but the nature of his business inevitably takes Self to Los
Angeles, the capital of the movie industry.
The challenge of the novel's chosen form is to make the style
both eloquently descriptive of the urban wasteland and expressive
of the narrator's slobbish, tunnel-visioned, philistine character.
Amis manages this difficult trick by disguising his literary skills
behind a barrage of streetwise slang, profanity, obscenities and
jokes. The narrator speaks in a mid-Atlantic lingo that is partly
derived from popular culture and the mass media and partly Amis's
plausible invention. To decipher the first paragraph of this passage,
for instance, you have to know that Alcatraz is a famous Californian
prison, that "pig" is a term of abuse for policeman, that "drawing a
bead" means taking aim, that "rug" is American slang for toupee
(though Self uses it to refer to real hair), and guess that "coptered"
is a participle derived from "helicopter". The metaphor for the
58
THE SENSE OF PLACE
city's polluted sky, "a smear of God's green snot", suggesting the
deity of the Old Testament glowering over this latterday Sodom, is
as startling as T. S. Eliot's evening "spread out against the sky/
Like a patient etherized upon a table" in "The Love Song of J.
Alfred Prufrock", and owes something to Stephen Dedalus's
description of the sea as "snot-green", in the first episode of
Ulysses. But whereas Prufrock has high-cultural pretensions and
Stephen is consciously travestying Homer's favourite epithet for
the sea, "wine-dark", John Self seems to be merely indulging in
schoolboy nastiness, and this distracts us from the literary sophistication of the image.
The key trope of this description of Los Angeles is hyperbole,
or overstatement. In that respect it resembles another skaz narrative
we looked at earlier, The Catcher in the Rye. But Amis's passage is
much more of a rhetorical set-piece than anything to be found in
Salinger's novel. It performs a series of comically exaggerated
variations on the commonplace theme that Los Angeles is a city
dedicated to and dominated by the motor car ("The only way to
get across the road is to be born there"); and on the slightly less
commonplace observations that America favours highly specialized
retail outlets, and that American taxi-drivers are often recent
immigrants who don't know the way to anywhere.
On arriving in Boston recently, I took a cab whose driver had to
make three attempts, assisted by radio-telephone consultation in
Russian with his control, before he could find his way out of the
airport. It's difficult to exaggerate that kind of incompetence, but
Amis found a way: "The cabbies are all Saturnians who aren't even
sure whether this is a right planet or a left planet. The first thing
you have to do, every trip, is teach them how to drive." An echo of
the homely seat-belt safety slogan, "Clunk Click, every trip",
follows fast on the flip allusion to science fiction - Amis's prose
delights in such juxtapositions, culled from the dreck of contemporary urban consciousness. The echo also contributes to the jaunty,
finger-snapping rhythm of the whole passage, which threatens at
one particularly cherishable moment to break into rhyming couplets ("You can get your chimp shampooed, you can get your dick
tattooed").
59
THE SENSE OF PLACE
The danger of most set-piece descriptions of place (the novels
of Sir Walter Scott provide plenty of examples) is that a succession
of well-formed declarative sentences, combined with the suspension of narrative interest, will send the reader to sleep. No risk of
that here. The present tense describes both the place and the
narrator's movement through it. The shifts in verbal mood - from
indicative ("You come out of the hotel") to interrogative ("but can
you get lunch?") to imperative ("Don't walk. Drive. Don't walk.
Run!") and the generalizing second-person pronoun ("You walk
left, you walk right") - involve the reader in the process. After
many pages of this sort of thing you might fall asleep from
exhaustion, but not from boredom.
60
13 Lists
With Nicole's help Rosemary bought two dresses and two hats
and four pairs of shoes with her money. Nicole bought from a
great list that ran two pages, and bought the things in the
windows besides. Everything she liked that she couldn't possibly
use herself, she bought as a present for a friend. She bought
coloured beads, folding beach cushions, artificial flowers, honey,
a guest bed, bags, scarfs, love birds, miniatures for a doll's
house, and three yards of some new cloth the colour of prawns.
She bought a dozen bathing suits, a rubber alligator, a travelling
chess set of gold and ivory, big linen handkerchiefs for Abe, two
chamois leather jackets of kingfisher blue and burning bush
from Hermes - bought all these things not a bit like a highclass courtesan buying underwear and jewels, which were after
all professional equipment and insurance, but with an entirely
different point of view. Nicole was the product of much ingenuity and toil. For her sake trains began their run at Chicago
and traversed the round belly of the continent to California;
chicle factories fumed and link belts grew link by link in
factories; men mixed toothpaste in vats and drew mouthwash
out of copper hogsheads; girls canned tomatoes quickly in
August or worked rudely at the Five-and-Tens on Christmas
Eve; half-breed Indians toiled on Brazilian coffee plantations
and dreamers were muscled out of patent rights in new tractors
- these were some of the people who gave a tithe to Nicole and,
as the whole system swayed and thundered onward, it lent a
feverish bloom to such processes of hers as wholesale buying,
like the flush of a fireman's face holding his post before a
spreading blaze. She illustrated very simple principles, containing in herself her own doom, but illustrated them so accurately
that there was grace in the procedure, and presently Rosemary
would try to imitate it.
F. SCOTT FITZGERALD Tender is the Night (1934)
61
"THE RICH are different from us," F. Scott Fitzgerald once said to
Ernest Hemingway, who replied, "Yes, they have more money."
This anecdote, recorded by Fitzgerald, is usually told against him.
But Hemingway's positivist putdown surely missed the point: that in
money, as in other matters, quantity sooner or later becomes quality,
for good or ill. Fitzgerald's description of Nicole Diver's Paris
shopping expedition eloquently illustrates the difference of the rich.
It also illustrates the expressive potential of the list in fictional
discourse. On the face of it, a mere catalogue of discrete items
would seem to be out of place in a story focused on character and
action. But fictional prose is wonderfully omnivorous, capable of
assimilating all kinds of nonfictional discourse - letters, diaries,
depositions, even lists - and adapting them to its own purposes.
Sometimes the list is reproduced in its own characteristically
vertical form, contrasting with the surrounding discourse. In
Murphy, for instance, Samuel Beckett mocks conventional novelistic description by listing the physical attributes of his heroine,
Celia, in a flat, statistical fashion:
Head
Eyes
Complexion
Hair
Features
Neck
Upper arm
Forearm
Small and round
Green
White
Yellow
Mobile
13"
11"
9"
And so on.
The contemporary American writer, Lorrie Moore, has an
amusing story called "How To Be an Other Woman" (Self-Help,
1985) based on two non-fictional types of discourse, the do-ityourself manual, and the list. The narrator's insecurity in the role
of mistress is aggravated by her lover's praise of his wife:
"She's just incredibly organized. She makes lists for everything.
It's pretty impressive."
62
LISTS
"That she makes lists? You like that?"
"Well, yes. You know, what she's going to do, what she has to
buy, names of clients she has to see, et cetera."
"Lists?" you murmur hopelessly, listlessly, your expensive
beige raincoat still on.
Soon, of course, the narrator is making her own lists:
CLIENTS TO SEE
Birthday snapshots
Scotch tape
Letters to TD and Mom
In fact she doesn't have any clients to see, being a humble
secretary. The lists are a way of competing with the image of the
absent wife. When her lover hints that his wife has had an
adventurous sexual life, the narrator responds:
Make a list of all the lovers you've ever had.
Warren Lasher
Ed "Rubberhead" Catapano
Charles Deats or Keats
Alfonse
Tuck it in your pocket. Leave it lying around, conspicuously.
Somehow you lose it. Make "mislaid" jokes to yourself. Make
another list.
There is a kind of popular contemporary fiction about the lives of
the rich, aimed mainly at women readers, which is known in the
publishing trade as the "Sex and Shopping" (or less politely as the
"S and F") novel. Such novels incorporate detailed descriptions of
their heroines' purchases of luxury goods, down to the last designer
label. Erotic and consumerist wish-fulfilment are simultaneously
indulged. Scott Fitzgerald is also concerned with the connections
between sexual allure and conspicuous consumption, but he handles it much more subtly, and critically. He doesn't reproduce
Nicole's two-page shopping list in this passage from Tender is the
Night, nor try to make brand names do his work for him. He
creates the impression of prodigality with, in fact, remarkably few
items, and invokes only one brand name, "Hermes" (which,
63
LISTS
interestingly, hasn't dated). But he emphasizes the miscellaneousness
of the list to convey the completely non-utilitarian nature of
Nicole's shopping. Cheap, trivial things like coloured beads, and
homely things like honey, are mixed up promiscuously with large
functional objects like the bed, expensive toys like the gold-andivory chess set, and frivolities like the rubber alligator. There is no
logical order in the list, no hierarchy of price, or importance, or
grouping of the items according to any other principle. That is the
point.
Nicole quickly exceeds the parameters of the list she brought
with her, and buys whatever takes her fancy. By exercising her
taste and gratifying her whims without regard to economy or
commonsense, she conveys a sense of a personality and temperament that is generous, impulsive, amusing and aesthetically sensitive, if out of touch with reality in some important respects. It's
impossible not to respond to the fun and the sensual pleasure of
this spending spree. How covetable those two chamois-leather
jackets sound, kingfisher blue and burning bush (but the key word
is "two": where lesser mortals might hesitate between two identical
jackets of different, equally attractive colours, Nicole solves the
problem by buying both). No wonder her young protégée, and
future rival, Rosemary, will try to imitate her style.
Balancing the shopping list, however, is another list, of the
human beings, or groups, on whose exploitation Nicole's inherited
wealth depends, a list which throws our response into reverse. The
whole passage turns on the sentence, "Nicole was the product of
much ingenuity and toil," which suddenly makes us see her not as
the consumer and collector of commodities, objects, things, but as
herself a kind of commodity - the final, exquisite, disproportionately expensive and extravagantly wasteful product of industrial
capitalism.
Whereas the first list was a sequence of nouns, the second is a
series of verbal phrases: "trains began their run .. . chicle factories
fumed .. . men mixed toothpaste .. . girls canned tomatoes ..."
At first sight these processes seem as mutually incongruous and
randomly selected as the items of Nicole's shopping, but there is a
connection between the men in the toothpaste factories and the
LISTS
girls in the dime stores and the Indian workers in Brazil: the profits
made from their labour indirectly fund Nicole's shopping.
The second list is written in a more metaphorical style than the
first one. It begins with a striking image, suggestive of both
eroticism and gluttony, of the trains traversing the "round belly of
the continent", and returns to the metaphor of the railway engine
at the end to evoke the dangerous and potentially self-destructive
energy of industrial capitalism. "As the whole system swayed and
thundered onward" reminds one of the railway symbolism used to
similar effect in Dickens' Dombey and Son ("The power that forced
itself upon its iron way - its own - defiant of all paths and roads,
piercing through the heart of every obstacle, and dragging living
creatures of all classes, ages, and degrees behind it, was a type of
the triumphant monster, Death.")
Typically of Fitzgerald, however, the image is developed in an
unexpected and rather elusive way. The analogy shifts from that of
a railway engine's furnace to that of a conflagration, and Nicole
stands now in the position not of someone stoking a fire, but of
someone trying to extinguish it, or at least defying it. The word
"fireman" can bear either of these contradictory meanings, and
Fitzgerald's use of it perhaps reveals the ambivalence of his own
attitude to people like Nicole: a mixture of envy and admiration
and disapproval. The words, "She illustrated very simple principles, containing in herself her own doom, but illustrated them so
accurately that there was grace in the procedure" sounds like an
echo, conscious or unconscious, of Hemingway's definition of
courage: "grace under pressure."
14 Introducing a Character
A few minutes later, Sally herself arrived.
"Am I terribly late, Fritz darling?"
"Only half of an hour, I suppose," Fritz drawled, beaming
with proprietary pleasure. "May I introduce Mr Isherwood -
Miss Bowles? Mr Isherwood is commonly known as Chris."
"I'm not," I said. "Fritz is about the only person who's ever
called me Chris in my life."
Sally laughed. She was dressed in black silk, with a small cape
over her shoulders and a little cap like a page-boy's stuck
jauntily on one side of her head:
"Do you mind if I use your telephone, sweet?"
"Sure. Go right ahead." Fritz caught my eye. "Come into the
other room, Chris. I want to show you something." He was
evidently longing to hear my first impressions of Sally, his new
acquisition.
"For heaven's sake, don't leave me alone with this man!" she
exclaimed. "Or he'll seduce me down the telephone. He's most
terribly passionate."
As she dialled the number, I noticed that her finger-nails
were painted emerald green, a colour unfortunately chosen, for
it called attention to her hands, which were much stained by
cigarette-smoking and as dirty as a little girl's. She was dark
enough to be Fritz's sister. Her face was long and thin, powdered dead white. She had very large brown eyes which should
have been darker, to match her hair and the pencil she used for
her eyebrows.
"Hilloo," she cooed, pursing her brilliant cherry lips as though
she were going to kiss the mouthpiece: "1st dass Du, mein
Liebling?" Her mouth opened in a fatuously sweet smile. Fritz
and I sat watching her, like a performance at the theatre.
CHRISTOPHER ISHERWOOD Goodbye to Berlin (1939)
66
CHARACTER is arguably the most important single component of
the novel. Other narrative forms, such as epic, and other media,
such as film, can tell a story just as well, but nothing can equal the
great tradition of the European novel in the richness, variety and
psychological depth of its portrayal of human nature. Yet character
is probably the most difficult aspect of the art of fiction to discuss
in technical terms. This is partly because there are so many
different types of character and so many different ways of representing them: major characters and minor characters, flat characters and round characters, characters rendered from inside their
minds, like Virginia Woolf 's Mrs Dalloway, and characters viewed
from outside by others, like Christopher Isherwood's Sally Bowles.
Originally the subject of one of the lightly fictionalized stories
and sketches that make up Goodbye to Berlin, Sally Bowles has
enjoyed a remarkably long life in the public imagination of our
time, thanks to the successful adaption of Isherwood's text first as
a stage play and film (/ Am A Camera), then as a stage and film
musical (Cabaret). At first glance, it's hard to understand why she
should have achieved this almost mythical status. She is not
particularly beautiful, not particularly intelligent, and not particularly gifted as an artiste. She is vain, feckless, and mercenary in
her sexual relationships. But she retains an endearing air of
innocence and vulnerability in spite of it all, and there is something
irresistibly comic about the gap between her pretensions and the
facts of her life. Her story gains enormously in interest and
significance from being set in Weimar Berlin, just before the Nazi
takeover. Dreaming vainly of fame and riches in seedy lodging
houses, bouncing from one louche protector to another, flattering,
exploiting and lying, in the most transparent fashion, she is an
emblem of the self-deception and folly of that doomed society.
The simplest way to introduce a character, common in older
fiction, is to give a physical description and biographical summary.
The portrait of Dorothea Brooke in the first chapter of George
Eliot's Middlemarch is a consummate example of this method:
Miss Brooke had that kind of beauty which seems to be thrown
into relief by poor dress. Her hand and wrist were so finely
INTRODUCING A CHARACTER
formed that she could wear sleeves not less bare of style than
those in which the Blessed Virgin appeared to Italian painters;
and her profile as well as her stature and bearing seemed to gain
the more dignity from her plain garments, which by the side of
provincial fashion gave her the impressiveness of a fine quotation
from the Bible - or from one of our elder poets - in a paragraph
of today's newspaper. She was usually spoken of as being
remarkably clever, but with the addition that her sister Celia had
more common sense.
And so on, for several pages. It is magnificent, but it belongs to a
more patient and leisurely culture than ours. Modern novelists
usually prefer to let the facts about a character emerge gradually,
diversified, or actually conveyed, by action and speech. In any case,
all description in fiction is highly selective; its basic rhetorical
technique is synecdoche, the part standing for the whole. Both
George Eliot and Christopher Isherwood evoke the physical
appearance of their heroines by focusing on the hands and the
face, leaving the reader to imagine the rest. An exhaustive description of Dorothea's or Sally Bowles's physical and psychological
attributes would take many pages, perhaps an entire book.
Clothes are always a useful index of character, class, life-style, but
especially in the case of an exhibitionist like Sally. Her black silk getup (worn for a casual afternoon visit) signals desire-to-impress,
theatricality (the cape), and sexual provocativeness (the page-boy's
hat acquires connotations from the many references to sexual
ambivalence and deviation, including transvestism, that run through
the book). These traits are immediately reinforced by her speech and
behaviour - asking to use the telephone in order to impress the two
men with her latest erotic conquest - which then gives the narrator
the opportunity for a description of Sally's hands and face.
This is what Henry James meant by the "scenic method", what
he aimed to achieve when he exhorted himself to "Dramatize!
dramatize!" James was thinking of the stage play, but Isherwood
belonged to the first generation of novelists to grow up with the
cinema, and its influence shows. When the narrator of Goodbye to
Berlin says "I am a camera," he is thinking of a movie camera.
Whereas Dorothea is posed statically, as if sitting for a verbal
68
INTRODUCING A CHARACTER
portrait, and is actually compared to a figure in a painting, Sally is
shown to us in action. It is easy to break down this passage into a
sequence of cinematic shots: Sally posing in her black silk outfit -
a quick exchange of glances between the two men - a close-up of
Sally's green fingernails as she dials the number - another closeup of her ill-coordinated, clown-like makeup and affected
expression as she greets her lover - and a two-shot of the male
spectators, riveted by the sheer ham of the performance.
No doubt this partly explains the ease with which Sally Bowles's
story has transferred to the screen. But there are nuances in the
passage which are purely literary. Those green fingernails on
grubby hands are what I first think of when her name is mentioned.
You could show the green nail-polish in a film, but not the
narrator's ironic comment, "a colour unfortunately chosen".
"Unfortunately chosen" is the story of Sally Bowles's life. And you
could show the cigarette stains and the dirt, but only a narrator
could observe, "dirty as a little girl's". The childlike quality beneath
the surface sophistication is precisely what makes Sally Bowles a
memorable character.
15 Surprise
"I say agin, I want you," Sir Pitt said, thumping the table. "/
can't git on without you. I didn't see what it was till you went
away. The house all goes wrong. It's not the same place. All my
accounts has got muddled agin. You must come back. Do come
back. Dear Becky, do come."
"Come - as what, sir?" Rebecca gasped out.
"Come as Lady Crawley, if you like," the Baronet said,
grasping his crape hat. "There! will that zatusfy you? Come
back and be my wife. Your vit vor't. Birth be hanged. You're as
good a lady as ever I see. You've got more brains in your little
vinger than any baronet's wife in the county. Will you come?
Yes or no?"
"Oh, Sir Pitt!" Rebecca said, very much moved.
"Say yes, Becky," Sir Pitt continued. "I'm an old man, but a
good'n. I'm good for twenty years. I'll make you happy, zee if I
don't. You shall do what you like; spend what you like; and 'av
it all your own way. Ill make you a zettlement. Ill do everything
reg'lar. Look year!" and the old man fell down on his knees and
leered at her like a satyr.
Rebecca started back a picture of consternation. In the course
of this history we have never seen her lose her presence of
mind; but she did now, and wept some of the most genuine
tears that ever fell from her eyes.
"Oh, Sir Pitt!" she said. "Oh, sir - 1 - I'm married already.1
*
WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY Vanity Fair (1848)
MOST NARRATIVES contain an element of surprise. If we can
predict every twist in a plot, we are unlikely to be gripped by it.
But the twists must be convincing as well as unexpected. Aristotle
called this effect peripeteia, or reversal, the sudden shift from one
state of affairs to its opposite, often combined with "discovery", the
transformation of a character's ignorance into knowledge. Aristotle's example was the scene in Oedipus Rex when the messenger
who has come to reassure the hero about his origins in fact reveals
to him that he has killed his father and married his mother.
In the retelling of a well-known story like that of Oedipus, the
surprise is experienced by the characters rather than the audience,
for whom the primary effect is one of irony (see Section 39, below).
The novel, however, differs from all previous narrative forms in
undertaking (or pretending) to tell wholly new stories. On a first
reading, therefore, most novels are likely to provide surprises,
though some contain more than others.
Thackeray managed to pack several into this scene in Vanity
Fair. Becky Sharp, a penniless and orphaned governess, is surprised to be offered marriage by a baronet; Sir Pitt Crawley and
the reader are surprised to discover that she is married already.
Thackeray gets still more mileage out of the situation. As Kathleen
Tillotson observed in her Novels of the 1840s, this passage, which
concludes Chapter XIV of the novel, also came at the end of the
fourth number of the original serial publication. The first readers
would therefore have been left in suspense for some time (rather
like viewers of a modern TV soap) about the identity of Becky's
husband. An analogy that might have occurred to Thackeray's
contemporaries would be the end of an Act in a play. The tableau
of the old roué on his knees before the beautiful and distraught
young woman is inherently theatrical, and Becky's "Oh, sir - I -
I'm married already" is a classic curtain-line, guaranteed to keep an
audience buzzing through the interval.
The next chapter takes up the question of whom Becky has
married without answering it immediately. Sir Pitt's half-sister,
Miss Crawley, bursts into the room to find her brother on his
knees before Becky, and she is surprised, especially to learn that
the proposal had been declined. Not till the end of the chapter
SURPRISE
does Thackeray reveal that Becky is secretly married to Miss
Crawley's nephew, the spendthrift cavalry officer, Rawdon
Crawley.
An effect like this needs careful preparation. As in a pyrotechnic
set-piece, a slow-burning fuse eventually ignites a quick succession
of spectacular explosions. Enough information must be fed to the
reader to make the revelation convincing when it comes, but not so
much that the reader will easily anticipate it. Thackeray witholds
information, but he doesn't cheat. He uses letters a good deal in
this part of his narrative to make his uncharacteristic reticence as
narrator seem more natural.
Having been foiled in an attempt to catch the brother of her
friend Amelia as a husband earlier in the story, the penniless Becky
was obliged to take the position of governess to Sir Pitt's two
daughters by his ailing second wife. She sets about making herself
invaluable to the miserly and uncouth old baronet at his country
seat, Queen's Crawley, and also to his rich spinster half-sister.
Miss Crawley takes such a fancy to Becky that she insists on being
nursed by her while indisposed at her London home. Sir Pitt
reluctantly agrees to release Becky because he doesn't want to
jeopardize his daughters' expectations of a bequest from Miss
Crawley; but when his wife dies (an event to which all the
characters are callously indifferent) he is impelled to get Becky
back to Queen's Crawley at any price, even marriage. Miss Crawley
has already spotted this danger - much as she enjoys Becky's
company, she has no wish to welcome her into the family - and
has tacitly encouraged her nephew to seduce Becky, to render her
ineligible as the third Lady Crawley. In marrying her instead,
Rawdon at least acts honourably, if recklessly. The rest of the
characters act wholly out of calculation and self-interest, love and
death being mere counters in the pursuit of wealth and status.
Thackeray's irony is remorseless. Becky is "very much moved",
her tears are, for once, genuine - but why? She has married the
stupid Rawdon hoping that he will inherit his aunt's wealth, only
to find that she has missed a much bigger and more certain prize:
to be the wife of a baronet and, in the nature of things, a rich
dowager before long (his claim that he is "good for twenty years"
72
SURPRISE
is over-optimistic, and certainly the least of his attractions for
Becky). The scene gains enormously from the comic characterization of Sir Pitt, of whom the narrator says earlier, "the whole
baronetage, peerage, commonage of England did not contain a
more cunning, mean, selfish, foolish, disreputable old man." In the
image of his leering at Becky like a satyr, Thackeray goes as far as
Victorian reticence would allow in hinting that Sir Pitt is not
beyond taking a crude sexual interest in Becky. That she should
weep at the loss of such a husband is a devastating comment not
only on her but on the whole milieu of Vanity Fair.
73
16 Time-Shift
Monica's anger was rising in her face. "It was Mr Lloyd with his
one arm round her," she said. "I saw them. I'm sorry I ever told
you. Rose is the only one that believes me."
Rose Stanley believed her, but this was because she was
indifferent. She was the least of all the Brodie set to be excited
by Miss Brodie's love affairs, or by anyone else's sex. And it was
always to be the same. Later, when she was famous for sex, her
magnificently appealing qualities lay in the fact that she had no
curiosity about sex at all, she never reflected upon it. As Miss
Brodie was to say, she had instinct.
"Rose is the only one who believes me," said Monica Douglas.
When she visited Sandy at the nunnery in the late nineteenfifries, Monica said, "I really did see Teddy Lloyd kiss Miss
Brodie in the art room one day."
"I know you did," said Sandy.
She knew it even before Miss Brodie had told her so one day
after the end of the war, when they sat in the Braid Hills Hotel
eating sandwiches and drinking tea which Miss Brodie's rations
at home would not run to. Miss Brodie sat shrivelled and
betrayed in her long-preserved dark musquash coat. She had
been retired before time. She said, "I am past my prime."
"It was a good prime," said Sandy.
MURIEL SPARK The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie (1961)
T HE SIMPLEST WAY to tell a story, equally favoured by tribal bards
and parents at bedtime, is to begin at the beginning, and go on
until you reach the end, or your audience falls asleep. But even in
antiquity, storytellers perceived the interesting effects that could
74
be obtained by deviating from chronological order. The classical
epic began in médias res, in the midst of the story. For example, the
narrative of the Odyssey begins halfway through the hero's hazardous voyage home from the Trojan War, loops back to describe his
earlier adventures, then follows the story to its conclusion in Ithaca.
Through time-shift, narrative avoids presenting life as just one
damn thing after another, and allows us to make connections
of causality and irony between widely separated events. A shift of
narrative focus back in time may change our interpretation of
something which happened much later in the chronology of the
story, but which we have already experienced as readers of the text.
This is a familiar device of cinema, the flashback. Film has more
difficulty in accommodating the effect of "flashforward" - the
anticipatory glimpse of what is going to happen in the future of the
narrative, known to classical rhetoricians as "prolepsis". This is
because such information implies the existence of a narrator who
knows the whole story, and films do not normally have narrators. It
is significant that in this respect the film of The Prime of Miss Jean
Brodie was much less complex and innovative than the novel on
which it was based. The film told the story in straightforward
chronological order, whereas the novel is remarkable for its fluid
handling of time, ranging rapidly back and forward over the span
of the action.
The story concerns Jean Brodie, an eccentric and charismatic
teacher at an Edinburgh girls' school between the Wars, and a
group of pupils who were under her spell, including Monica who
was famous for her skill in maths, Rose who was famous for sex,
and Sandy Stranger, who was famous for her vowel sounds and
"merely notorious for her small, almost non-existent eyes." These
eyes, however, miss nothing and Sandy is the main point-of-view
character of the novel. It begins when the girls are Seniors, quickly
moves back to describe their time as Juniors when Miss Brodie's
influence was at its most potent, and frequently jumps forward to
give glimpses of them as adult women, still teased and haunted by
memories of their extraordinary teacher.
In Junior School they speculate obsessively about Miss Brodie's
sexual life, particularly whether she is having an affair with Mr
75
TIME-SHIFT
Lloyd, the handsome art-master who "had lost the contents" of
one of his sleeves in the Great War. Monica claims to have seen
them embracing in the art room, and is vexed that only Rose
believes her. Her remark to Sandy years later implies that this
incredulity still rankles. Sandy, who has in the meantime become a
nun in an enclosed order, acknowledges that Monica was right.
She knew this, says the narrator, even before Miss Brodie told her
one day soon after the end of the war.
In this short passage the reader is whisked backwards and
forwards with breathtaking rapidity between a great many different
points in time. There is the time of the main narrative, probably
the late 1920s, when the Junior schoolgirls are discussing Miss
Brodie's amorous life. There is the time in Senior School, in the
1930s, when Rose became famous for sex. There is the time, in
the late 1950s, when Monica visits Sandy in her convent. There is
the time in the late 1940s when Sandy had tea with the compulsorily retired Miss Brodie. And there is the unspecified time when
Sandy discovered that Miss Brodie had indeed been kissed by Mr
Lloyd in the art room.
She discovered it, we learn much later in the book, in Senior
School. The occasion is a conversation in which Miss Brodie
declares that Rose will be Mr Lloyd's mistress as surrogate for
herself, because she has dedicated herself to her girls. Sandy
decides that there is something dangerous as well as exhilarating
about her teacher's rampant egotism. "She thinks she is Providence, thought Sandy, she thinks she is the God of Calvin, she
sees the beginning and the end." Of course novelists also see the
beginning and the end of their stories, but there is a difference,
Muriel Spark implies, between useful fictions and dangerous
delusions - also, perhaps, between the Catholic God who allows
for free will and the Calvinistic one who doesn't. There is a telling
description elsewhere in the novel of Calvin's doctrine of predestination, the belief that "God had planned for practically everybody
before they were born a nasty surprise when they died."
Sandy falsifies Miss Brodie's prediction, and thus challenges her
claim to control the destinies of others, by becoming Lloyd's
mistress herself. Later she shops Miss Brodie to the school
76
TIME-SHIFT
authorities for sending another pupil off on a fatal adventure in
fascist Spain. That is why Miss Brodie is described as "betrayed"
in this extract, and Sandy never seems to be free from guilt on this
account, in spite of her religious vocation. Miss Brodie is described
as "shrivelled" because she is dying of cancer, so it's a sad scene.
But it is placed less than halfway through the novel, and its pathos
is countered by many still to come of Miss Brodie in her prime.
Time-shift is a very common effect in modern fiction, but usually
it is "naturalized" as the operation of memory, either in the
representation of a character's stream of consciousness (Molly
Bloom's interior monologue is constantly shifting from one phase
of her life to another, like a gramophone pickup skating backwards
and forwards between tracks on an LP disc) or, more formally, as
the memoir or reminiscence of a character-narrator (for instance,
Dowell in Ford's The Good Soldier). Graham Greene's The End of
the Affair (1951) is a virtuoso performance of this latter type. The
narrator is a professional writer, Bendrix, who at the beginning of
his narrative meets Henry, the husband of Sarah, with whom
Bendrix had an affair years before, which Sarah broke off abruptly.
Bendrix, who presumed that she had found another lover, is still
bitter and jealous, and, when Henry confides his own suspicions of
Sarah's infidelity, Bendrix perversely hires a detective to discover
her secret. What the detective discovers is a journal kept by Sarah,
which describes the affair with Bendrix from her point of view,
revealing a completely unexpected motive for her breaking it off,
and an unsuspected religious conversion. These developments are
the more plausible and dramatic for being narrated out of their
proper chronological place.
Muriel Spark's combination of frequent time-shift with authorial
third-person narrative is a typical postmodernist strategy, calling
attention to the artificial construction of the text, and preventing us
from "losing ourselves" in the temporal continuum of the fictional
story or in the psychological depth of the central character. Kurt
Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse Five (1969) is another striking example.
The author tells us at the outset that the story of his hero, Billy
Pilgrim, is a fiction based on his own real experience of being a
77
TIME-SHIFT
prisoner of war in Dresden when it was destroyed by Allied
bombers in 1945, one of the most horrific air-raids of World War
II. The story proper begins: "Listen. Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck
in time? and it shifts frequently and abruptly between various
episodes in Billy's civilian life as an optometrist, husband and
father in the American midwest, and episodes of his war-service
culminating in the horror of Dresden. This is more than just the
operation of memory. Billy is "time-tripping". With other traumatized veterans he seeks to escape the intolerable facts of modern
history by means of the science-fiction myth of effortless travel
through time and intergalactic space (which is measured in time -
"light-years"). He claims to have been abducted for a period to the
planet Tralfamadore, which is inhabited by little creatures who
look like plumber's friends with an eye on top. These passages are
both amusingly parodie of science fiction and philosophically
serious. To the Tralfamadorians, all times are simultaneously
present, and one can choose where to locate oneself. It is the
inexorable, unidirectional movement of time that makes life tragic
in our human perspective, unless one believes in an eternity in
which time is redeemed, and its effects reversed. Slaughterhouse
Five is a wistful, thought-provoking meditation on these matters,
post-Christian as well as postmodernist. One of its most striking
and poignant images is of a war-film which Billy Pilgrim watches
in reverse:
American planes, full of holes and wounded men and corpses
took off backwards from an airfield in England. Over France, a
few German fighter planes flew at them backwards, sucked
bullets and shell fragments from some of the planes and crewmen. They did the same for wrecked American bombers on the
ground, and those planes flew up backwards to join the
formation.
Martin Amis has (with due acknowledgment to Vonnegut) recently
developed this conceit into a whole book, Time's Arrow, narrating
the life of a Nazi war criminal backwards from the moment of his
death to his birth, with an effect that is comically grotesque at first,
and then increasingly disturbed and disturbing as the story
78
TIME-SHIFT
approaches the horrors of the Holocaust. It is possible to interpret
the story as a kind of purgatory in which the central character's
soul is compelled to relive his appalling past, and as a myth of
cancelled evil whose impossibility is all too evident. Most examples
of radical experiment with narrative chronology that come to mind
seem to be concerned with crimes, misdemeanours and sins.
79
17 The Reader in the Text
How could you, Madam, be so inattentive in reading the last
chapter? I told you in it, That my mother was not a papist. -
Papist! You told me no such thing, Sir. Madam, I beg leave to
repeat it over again, That I told you as plain, at least as words,
by direct inference, could tell you such a thing. - Then, Sir, I
must have miss'd a page. - No, Madam, - you have not missed
a word. - Then I was asleep, Sir. - My pride, Madam, cannot
allow you that refuge. - Then, I declare, I know nothing at all
about the matter. - That, Madam, is the very fault I lay to your
charge; and as a punishment for it, I do insist upon it, that you
immediately turn back, that is, as soon as you get to the next
full stop, and read the whole chapter over again.
I have imposed this penance upon the lady, neither out of
wantonness or cruelty, but from the best of motives; and
therefore shall make her no apology for it when she returns
back: - 'Tis to rebuke a vicious taste which has crept into
thousands besides herself, - of reading straight forwards, more
in quest of the adventures, than of the deep erudition and
knowledge which a book of this cast, if read over as it should
be, would infallibly impart with them.
LAURENCE STERNE The Life and Opinions of
Tristram Shandy, Gent. (1759-67)
EVERY NOVEL must have a narrator, however impersonal, but not
necessarily a narratee. The narratee is any evocation of, or
surrogate for, the reader of the novel within the text itself. This
can be as casual as the Victorian novelist's familiar apostrophe,
"Dear reader," or as elaborate as the frame of Kipling's "Mrs
80
Bathurst", discussed earlier (Section 7), in which the "I" narrator
is also the narratee of a story told by three other characters who
themselves are constantly swapping the two roles. Italo Calvino
begins his If on a winter's night a traveller by exhorting his reader to
get into a receptive mood: "Relax. Concentrate. Dispel every other
thought. Let the world around you fade. Best to close the door;
the TV is always on in the next room." But a narratee, however
constituted, is always a rhetorical device, a means of controlling
and complicating the responses of the real reader who remains
outside the text.
Laurence Sterne, narrating under the light disguise of Tristram
Shandy, plays all kinds of games with the narrator-narratee
relationship. Rather like a music-hall comedian who plants stooges
in the audience, and integrates their heckling into his act, he
sometimes personifies his reader as a Lady or a Gentleman whom
he interrogates, teases, criticizes and flatters, for the entertainment
and instruction of the rest of us.
Tristram Shandy is a highly idiosyncratic novel whose eponymous
narrator undertakes to relate his life from the moment of his
conception to adulthood, but never gets beyond his fifth year
because the attempt to describe and explain every incident faithfully and exhaustively leads him into endless digression. Everything
is connected with other things that occurred before or after or in
another place. Gamely, but hopelessly, Tristram struggles to
preserve chronological order. In Chapter XIX, still hopelessly
bogged down in his pre-natal history, he alludes to the ironic fate
of his father, who abominated the name "Tristram" above all
others, but lived to see his son inadvertently christened with it, and
declares: "if it was not necessary I should be born before I was
christened, I would this moment give the reader an account of it."
This is the sentence (he reveals after the passage I have extracted)
that should have given his Lady reader the clue to his mother's
religious allegiance, for "Had my mother, Madam, been a Papist,
that consequence did not follow." The reason being that, according
to a document which Tristram reprints (in the original French) in his
text, some learned theologians of the Sorbonne had recently
approved the idea of conditionally baptizing infants endangered by a
81
THE READER IN THE TEXT
difficult birth, in utero, by means of a "squirt". In a Roman Catholic
country, therefore, it is possible to be christened before one is born.
Baiting Roman Catholics (he was himself an Anglican vicar) and
indulging in nudge-nudge humour about the private parts are
features of Sterne's writing that are sometimes held against him,
but you would have to be a very dour reader not to be disarmed by
the wit and elegance of his repartee with "Madam" (its liveliness
much enhanced by Sterne's free and idiosyncratic punctuation)
and his aside to "the reader". For the real function of this
digression is to define and defend his own art. The Lady is sent
off to re-read the preceding chapter, "to rebuke a vicious taste .. .
of reading straight forwards, more in quest of the adventures, than
of the deep erudition and knowledge which a book of this cast, if
read over as it should be, would infallibly impart..."
No wonder Tristram Shandy has been a favourite book of
experimental novelists and theorists of the novel in our own
century. As I indicated in the preceding section, modernist and
postmodernist novelists have also sought to wean readers from the
simple pleasures of story by disrupting and rearranging the chain
of temporality and causality on which it traditionally depended.
Sterne anticipated Joyce and Virginia Woolf in letting the vagaries
of the human mind determine the shape and direction of the
narrative. And one of the slogans of modernist poetics is "Spatial
Form", which means giving unity to a literary work by a pattern of
interconnected motifs that can only be perceived by "reading over"
(i.e., re-reading) the text in the manner recommended by Tristram.
His dialogue with his readers spatializes the temporal nature of
the reading experience in a still more radical way. The novel is
figured as a room in which we, as readers, are closeted with the
narrator. Before giving the intimate details of his conception, for
instance, he declares that "'tis wrote only for the curious and
inquisitive," and invites those readers not interested in such
descriptions to skip over it, saying:
" Shut the door "
slyly confident that we will choose to remain with him.
82
THE READER IN THE TEXT
In the passage cited, one of our number, the Lady, is sent off to
re-read the preceding chapter "as soon as you get to the next full
stop" (a neat, and characteristic, reminder of the nature of the
reading process). We who, as it were, remain with the author are
made to feel privileged by his confidence, and tacitly invited to
distance ourselves from the imperceptive reader and the "vicious
taste which has crept into thousands besides herself", of reading a
novel just for the story. Being at this point as much in the dark as
she is about the reference to Roman Catholicism, we cannot put
up much resistance to the author's defence of his method.
18 Weather
The evening of this day was very long, and melancholy, at
Hartfield. The weather added what it could of gloom. A cold
stormy rain set in, and nothing of July appeared but in the trees
and shrubs, which the wind was despoiling, and the length of
the day, which only made such cruel sights the longer visible.
JANE AUSTEN Emma (1816)
London. Michaelmas term lately over, and the Lord Chancellor
sitting in Lincoln's Inn Hall. Implacable November weather. As
much mud in the streets, as if the waters had but newly retired
from the face of the earth, and it would not be wonderful to
meet a Megalosaurus, forty feet long or so, waddling like an
elephantine lizard up Holborn Hill. Smoke lowering down from
chimney-pots, making a soft black drizzle with flakes of soot in
it as big as full-grown snowflakes - gone into mourning, one
might imagine, for the death of the sun. Dogs, undistinguishable
in mire. Horses, scarcely better; splashed to their very blinkers.
Foot passengers, jostling one another's umbrellas, in a general
infection of ill temper, and losing their foot-hold at streetcorners, where tens of thousands of other foot passengers have
been slipping and sliding since the day broke (if this day ever
broke), adding new deposits to the crust upon crust of mud,
sticking at those points tenaciously to the pavement, and accumulating at compound interest.
CHARLES DICKENS Bleak House (1853)
APART FROM THE ODD STORM at sea, weather was given scant
attention in prose fiction until the late eighteenth century. In the
nineteenth, novelists always seem to be talking about it. This was
the consequence partly of the heightened appreciation of Nature
engendered by Romantic poetry and painting, partly of a growing
literary interest in the individual self, in states of feeling that affect
and are affected by our perceptions of the external world. As
Coleridge put it in his ode on "Dejection":
O Lady! We receive but what we give
And in our life alone does Nature live.
We all know that the weather affects our moods. The novelist is in
the happy position of being able to invent whatever weather is
appropriate to the mood he or she wants to evoke.
Weather is therefore frequently a trigger for the effect John
Ruskin called the pathetic fallacy, the projection of human
emotions onto phenomena in the natural world. "All violent
feelings .. . produce in us a falseness in our impressions of external
things, which I would generally characterize as the pathetic fallacy,"
he wrote. As the name implies, Ruskin thought it was a bad thing,
a symptom of the decadence of modern (as compared to classical)
art and literature, and it is indeed often the occasion of overblown,
self-indulgent writing. But used with intelligence and discretion it
is a rhetorical device capable of moving and powerful effects,
without which fiction would be much the poorer.
Jane Austen retained an Augustan suspicion of the Romantic
imagination, and satirized it in the characterization of Marianne in
Sense and Sensibility. "It is not everyone who has your passion for
dead leaves," her sister Elinor comments drily after Marianne's
autumn rhapsody, "How have I delighted, as I walked, to see them
driven in showers about me by the wind. What feelings have they,
the season, the air altogether inspired!" Weather in Jane Austen's
novels is usually something that has an important practical bearing
on the social life of her characters, rather than a metaphorical
index of their inner lives. The snow in Chapters 15 and 16 of
Emma is representative in this respect. The first mention comes in
85
WEATHER
the middle of Mr Weston's pre-Christmas dinner party, when Mr
John Knightley, who never wanted to attend it in the first place,
comes into the drawing-room and announces with ill-concealed
Schadenfreude that it is "snowing hard with a strong drifting wind",
striking terror into the heart of Emma's valetudinarian father, Mr
Woodhouse. There follows a discussion in which everybody has
something to say, more self-revealing than to the point, until Mr
George Knightley returns from his own examination of the
weather, and gives a typically reasonable and reassuring report of
it. He and Emma, concluding that Mr Woodhouse will nevertheless
fret for the rest of the evening, decide to call for the carriages. Mr
Elton takes advantage of this sudden departure to get unaccompanied into Emma's carriage, and makes a declaration of love which is
both unexpected and deeply embarrassing to her, since she has
been under the illusion that he was courting her protégée, Harriet.
Fortunately, the weather over the next few days gives her a
welcome alibi to avoid meeting either of the other two parties:
The weather was most favourable to her .. . The ground covered
with snow, and the atmosphere in that unsettled state between
frost and thaw, which is of all the others the most unfriendly for
exercise, every morning beginning in rain or snow, and every
evening setting in to freeze, she was for many days a most
honourable prisoner.
The weather is described because it is relevant to the story, but the
description is quite literal.
Even Jane Austen, however, makes discreet use of the pathetic
fallacy on occasion. When Emma's fortunes are at their lowest ebb,
when she has discovered the truth, with all its embarrassing
implications for her own conduct, about Jane Fairfax, when she
belatedly realizes that she loves Mr Knightley but has reason to
believe he is going to marry Harriet - on this, the worst day of her
life, "the weather added what it could of gloom." Ruskin would
point out that the weather is incapable of any such intention. But
the summer storm is a precise analogy for the heroine's feelings
about her future, because her very fixed and prominent position in
the small and enclosed society of Highbury will only make such
86
WEATHER
"cruel sights" as Harriet's marriage to Knightley "the longer
visible". Being unseasonable, however, it is an unreliable portent:
next day, the sun comes out again and George Knightley turns up
to propose to Emma.
Where Jane Austen slips the pathetic fallacy past us so stealthily
that we hardly notice, Dickens hits us over the head with it in the
famous opening paragraph of Bleak House. "Implacable November
weather." The personification of the weather as "implacable" is a
commonplace colloquialism, but here it carries suggestions of
divine displeasure, being in close conjunction with allusions to the
Old Testament. "As if the waters had but newly retired from the
face of the earth," echoes both the description of the Creation in
Genesis and the story of the Flood. These Biblical allusions are
mixed up in a very Victorian way with a more modern, postDarwinian cosmology in the references to the Megalosaurus and
the running down of the solar system from entropy. The total
effect is a startling feat of defamiliarization.
On one level this is a realistic picture of nineteenth-century
London streets in bad weather, a montage of typical details quite
simply and literally described: smoke lowering down from chimney-pots .. . dogs undistinguishable in mire .. . horses splashed to
their very blinkers .. . jostling umbrellas. But Dickens's metaphoric
imagination transforms this commonplace scene into an apocalyptic
vision of the proud capital of the British Empire reverting to
primitive swamp, or anticipating the final extinction of all life on
earth. The metaphorical double somersault from soot flake, to
snowflake in mourning, to the death of the sun, is particularly
stunning.
It is a scenario of a kind we meet later in science fiction (the
vision of the Megalosaurus waddling up Holborn Hill anticipates
King Kong scaling the Empire State Building, the "death of the
sun" the chilling finale of H. G. Wells's The Time Machine) and in
postmodernist prophets of doom like Martin Amis. It sets up for
denunciation the idea of a society that has denatured itself by greed
and corruption, which Dickens is about to examine in his manystranded plot centering on a disputed estate. Wittily, the mud
87
WEATHER
accumulates at compound interest here in the City of London,
reminding us of the Biblical condemnation of money as filthy lucre.
The Lord Chancellor described at the beginning of the passage (in
a series of terse statements like headlines from "News at Ten")
presiding over the court of Chancery, seems also to preside over
the weather, and the equation is clinched some paragraphs later:
"Never can there come fog too thick, never can there come mud
and mire too deep, to assort with the groping and floundering
condition which this High Court of Chancery, most pestilent of
hoary sinners, holds, this day, in the sight of heaven and earth."
19 Repetition
In the fall the war was always there, but we did not go to it any
more. It was cold in the fall in Milan and the dark came very
early. Then the electric lights came on, and it was pleasant
along the streets looking in the windows. There was much game
hanging outside the shops, and the snow powdered in the fur of
the foxes and the wind blew their tails. The deer hung stiff and
heavy and empty, and small birds blew in the wind and the
wind turned their feathers. It was a cold fall and the wind came
down from the mountains.
We were all at the hospital every afternoon, and there were
different ways of walking across the town through the dusk to
the hospital. Two of the ways were alongside canals, but they
were long. Always, though, you crossed a bridge across a canal
to enter the hospital. There was a choice of three bridges. On
one of them a woman sold roasted chestnuts. It was warm,
standing in front of her charcoal fire, and the chestnuts were
warm afterward in your pocket. The hospital was very old and
very beautiful, and you entered through a gate and walked
across a courtyard and out a gate on the other side. There were
usually funerals starting from the courtyard. Beyond the old
hospital were the new brick pavilions, and there we met every
afternoon and were all very polite and interested in what was
the matter, and sat in the machines that were to make so much
difference.
ERNEST HEMINGWAY "In Another Country" (1927)
IF YOU HAVE the time and inclination, get some coloured pens or
pencils and draw a ring round the words that occur more than
once in the first paragraph of Hemingway's story, a different colour
for each word, and join them up. You will reveal a complex pattern
of verbal chains linking words of two kinds: those with referential
meaning, y#//, cold, dark, wind, blew, which we can call lexical words,
and articles, prepositions and conjunctions like the, of, in, and,
which we can call grammatical words.
It is almost impossible to write English without the repetition of
grammatical words, so normally we don't notice it as such, but you
can't fail to notice the extraordinary number of "ands" in this short
paragraph. This is a symptom of its very repetitive syntax, stringing
together declarative statements without subordinating one to
another. The repetition of the lexical words is less evenly distributed, clustering at the beginning and end of the paragraph.
Lexical and grammatical repetition on this scale would probably
receive a black mark in a school "composition", and quite rightly.
The traditional model of good literary prose requires "elegant
variation": if you have to refer to something more than once, you
should try to find alternative ways of describing it; and you should
give your syntax the same kind of variety. (The passage by Henry
James discussed in Section 6 is rich in examples of both kinds of
variation.)
Hemingway, however, rejected traditional rhetoric, for reasons
that were partly literary and partly philosophical. He thought that
"fine writing" falsified experience, and strove to "put down what
really happened in action, what the actual things were which
produced the emotion that you experienced" by using simple,
denotative language purged of stylistic decoration.
It looks easy, but of course it isn't. The words are simple but
their arrangement is not. There are many possible ways of
arranging the words of the first sentence, but the one chosen by
Hemingway splits the phrase "go to war" in two, implying an as yet
unexplained tension in the persona of the narrator, a mixture of
relief and irony. As we soon learn, he and his companions are
soldiers wounded while fighting on the Italian side in World War
I, now recuperating, but conscious that the war which nearly killed
90
REPETITION
them may have made their lives not worth living anyway. It is a
story about trauma, and how men cope with it, or fail to cope. The
unspoken word which is a key to all the repeated words in the text
is "death".
The American word for autumn, fall, carries in it a reminder of
the death of vegetation, and echoes the conventional phrase for
those who die in battle, "the fallen". Its juxtaposition with cold and
dark in the second sentence strengthens these associations. The
brightly lit shops seem to offer some distraction (an effect heightened by the fact that there is no lexical repetition in this sentence)
but the narrator's attention quickly focuses on the game hanging
outside the shops, further emblems of death. The description of
the snow powdering in their fur, and the wind ruffling their
feathers, is literal and exact, but tightens the association of fall,
cold, dark, wind, blew, with death. Three of the repeated words
come together for the first time in the last sentence with a poetic
effect of closure: "It was a cold fall and the wind came down from
the mountains." The mountains are where the war is going on.
Wind, so often a symbol of life and spirit in religious and Romantic
writing, is here associated with lifelessness. God is very dead in
these early stories of Hemingway. The hero has learned from the
trauma of combat to distrust metaphysics as well as rhetoric. He
trusts only his senses, and sees experience in starkly polarized
terms: cold/warm, light/dark, life/death.
The incantatory rhythms and repetitions persist in the second
paragraph. It would have been easy to find elegant alternatives for
"hospital", or simply to have used the pronoun "it" occasionally;
but the hospital is the centre of the soldiers' lives, their daily place
of pilgrimage, the repository of their hopes and fears, and the
repetition of the word is therefore expressive. It is possible to vary
the route by which the hospital is reached, but the terminus is
always the same. There is a choice of bridges, but always you have
to cross a canal (a faint suggestion of the river Styx in the
underworld, perhaps). The narrator prefers the bridge where he
can buy roasted chestnuts, warm in the pocket like the promise of
life - except that Hemingway doesn't use that simile, he merely
implies it; just as in the first paragraph he manages to make his
REPETITION
description of the season as emotionally powerful as any example
of the pathetic fallacy (see the preceding section) without using a
metaphor. The line between charged simplicity and mannered
monotony is a fine one, and Hemingway didn't always stay on the
right side of it, but in his early work he forged an entirely original
style for his times.
Needless to say, repetition is not necessarily linked to a bleakly
positivist, anti-metaphysical representation of life such as we find
in Hemingway. It is also a characteristic feature of religious and
mystical writing, and is used by novelists whose work tends in that
direction - D. H. Lawrence, for instance. The language of the
opening chapter of The Rainbow, evoking a lost agrarian way of life,
echoes the verbal repetition and syntactical parallelism of the Old
Testament:
The young corn waved and was silken, and the lustre slid along
the limbs of the men who saw it. They took the udder of the
cows, the cows yielded milk and pulsed against the hands of the
men, the pulse of the blood of the teats of the cows beat into the
pulse of the hands of the men.
Repetition is also a favourite device of orators and preachers, roles
that Charles Dickens often adopted in his authorial persona. This,
for instance, is the conclusion to his chapter describing the death
of Jo, the destitute crossing-sweeper, in Bleak House:
Dead, your Majesty. Dead, my lords and gentlemen. Dead, Right
Reverends and Wrong Reverends of every order. Dead, men and
women, born with Heavenly compassion in your hearts. And
dying thus around us every day.
And of course repetition can be funny, as in this passage from
Martin Amis's Money:
Intriguingly enough, the only way I can make Selina actually want
to go to bed with me is by not wanting to go to bed with her. It
never fails. It really puts her in the mood. The trouble is, when I
don't want to go to bed with her (and it does happen), I don't
92
REPETITION
want to go to bed with her. When does it happen? When don't I
want to go to bed with her? When she wants to go to bed with
me. I like going to bed with her when going to bed with me is
the last thing she wants. She nearly always does go to bed with
me, if I shout at her a lot or threaten her or give her enough
money.
It hardly needs to be pointed out that the frustrations and
contradictions of the narrator's sexual relationship with Selina are
rendered all the more comic and ironic by the repetition of the
phrase "go to bed with" for which any number of alternatives were
available. (If you doubt that, try rewriting the passage using elegant
variation.) The final sentence also illustrates another important
type of repetition: the recurrence of a thematic keyword throughout
an entire novel - in this case, "money". It is "money" not "go to
bed" that occupies the crucially important last-word space in the
paragraph I have just quoted. Thus one kind of repetition,
belonging to the macro-level of the text, functions as variation on
the micro-level.
93
20 Fancy Prose
Lolita, light of my life, fire of my loins. My sin, my soul. Lo-leeta: the tip of the tongue taking a trip of three steps down the
palate to tap, at three, on the teeth. Lo. Lee. Ta.
She was Lo, plain Lo, in the morning, standing four feet ten
in one sock. She was Lola in slacks. She was Dolly at school.
She was Dolores on the dotted line. But in my arms she was
always Lolita.
Did she have a precursor? She did, indeed she did. In point
of fact, there might have been no Lolita at all had I not loved,
one summer, a certain initial girl-child. In a princedom by the
sea. Oh when? About as many years before Lolita was born as
my age was that summer. You can always count on a murderer
for a fancy prose style.
Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, exhibit number one is what
the seraphs, the misinformed, simple, noble-winged seraphs,
envied. Look at this tangle of thorns.
VLADIMIR NABOKOV Lolita (lQ.55)
THE GOLDEN RULE of fictional prose is that there are no rules -
except the ones that each writer sets for him or herself. Repetition
and simplicity worked (usually) for Hemingway's artistic purposes.
Variation and decoration worked for Nabokov's, especially in Lolita.
This novel takes the form of a brilliant piece of special pleading by
a man whose attraction to a certain type of pubescent girl, whom
he calls a "nymphet", leads him to commit evil deeds. The book
aroused controversy on its first publication, and still disturbs,
94
because it gives a seductive eloquence to a child-abuser and
murderer. As Humbert Humbert himself says, "You can always
count on a murderer for a fancy prose style."
There is of course plenty of repetition in the opening passage of
the novel, but it isn't lexical repetition, such as we encountered in
the Hemingway passage discussed in the previous section. It is a
matter of parallel syntactical structures and similar sounds - just
the kind of repetition, in fact, that you expect to find in poetry.
(Another term for fancy prose is poetic prose.) There's a veritable
firework display of alliteration, for instance, in the first paragraph,
T s and "f"s exploding brilliantly in rapturous celebration of the
beloved's name: light, life, loins, tip, tongue, trip. Lo. Lee. Ta.
Each of the four paragraphs exhibits a different type of discourse. This first one is a lyrical outburst, a series of exclamations,
without finite verbs. Its opening salvo of metaphors is extravagant
and faintly archaic in diction: light of my life, fire of my loins, my sin,
my soul (more alliteration there). The next metaphor, of the tongue
tripping down the palate to tap on the teeth, is more homely and
humorous, but it draws attention to an organ used in the service of
both eloquence and lust, never far apart in this character.
The second paragraph is tenderly reminiscent. A series of
identically structured clauses lists the variant names of the beloved
like a profane litany: She was Lo ... She was Lola... She was Dolly
... She was Dolores .. . But in my arms she was always Lolita. You
could set it to music. (There was in fact an ill-fated stage musical
of Lolita: "a. nice little flop," Nabokov drily noted in his diary.) And
of course, if we didn't know already, this paragraph gives us the
first inkling that Lolita was an under-age object of desire, in the
references to her height, sock and school.
The third paragraph takes yet another tack. It is more conversational, answering implied questions from an unspecified interlocutor, in the manner of a dramatic monologue: "Did she have a
precursor?" The affirmative answer is given with poetic redundancy: "She did, she did." The forensic phrase, "In point of fact,"
prepares us for the explicit evocation of a court-room context in
the last paragraph. (Humbert is supposed to be writing his apologia
while awaiting trial.) "Oh when?" The riddling, roundabout answer
95
FANCY PROSE
to that question foregrounds the disparity of age between Humbert
and Lolita.
In this paragraph narrative interest begins, with the raising of
questions about cause-and-effect ("there might have been .. . had
I not ...") and about the identity of the "initial girl-child".
Heightening the poetic quality of this prose is an allusion to a wellknown poem, Edgar Allan Poe's "Annabel Lee":
/ was a child and she was a child,
In this kingdom by the sea,
But we loved with a love that was more than love -
I and my ANNABEL LEE -
With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven
Coveted her and me.
Humbert's explanation of, and excuse for, his erotic fixation on
young girls is that an adolescent sweetheart called Annabel died
before they could consummate their love. Poe's poem is a morbidly
sentimental threnody on the same theme: the speaker blames the
envious angels for taking his beloved from this world, and finds
solace in lying beside her grave. Humbert, however, unscrupulously seeks nymphet surrogates for his Annabel. There is a
diabolic sneer in the epithets he applies to the seraphs, "misinformed, simple, noble-winged," and a blasphemous hint that his
own suffering is to be compared to the crown of thorns. (This kind
of gesturing of one text to another is known as intertextuality, and
deserves a section to itself- see p. 98.)
Nabokov's virtuosity in a language that was not his mothertongue never ceases to amaze; but perhaps it was this very fact that
allowed him to discover the full resources of English prose, and to
use them with uninhibited delight.
One of the earliest exponents of "fancy prose" in English fiction -
indeed, one might risk calling him the first - was the Elizabethan
writer John Lyly, whose Euphues: the Anatomy of Wit (1578) was a
very fashionable book in its day, and gave to the language the word
"euphuism" and the adjective "euphuistic" (not to be confused
with euphemism/euphemistic). Here is a specimen:
96
FANCY PROSE
The freshest colors soonest fade, the keenest razor soonest
turneth his edge, the finest cloth is soonest eaten with moths,
and the cambric sooner stained than the coarse canvas. Which
appeared well in this Euphues, whose wit being, like wax, apt to
receive any impression, and bearing the head in his own hand,
either to use the rein or the spur, disdaining counsel, leaving his
country, loathing his old acquaintance, thought either by wit to
obtain some conquest or by shame to abide some conflict; who,
preferring fancy before friends and his present humour before
honor to come, laid reason in water, being too salt for his taste,
and followed unbridled affection, most pleasant for his tooth.
It's clever, and amusing in short extracts, but after a few pages it is
apt to weary the modern reader by the sameness of its stylistic
exhibitionism. The same patterns of syntax and sound are used
again and again, and used by all the characters as well as the
authorial voice. It is a kind of prose that is exclusively literary,
belonging entirely to the written word. What is missing, what
entered into the prose of English fiction between Euphues and
Lolita, is the sound of the human voice, or many voices, speaking
in a variety of accents, rhythms and registers, animating and
modifying the formal patterns of literary rhetoric. More will be
said about this under the heading of "Telling in Different Voices"
(Section 27). But first: intertextuality.
97
2 i Intertextuality
"We must try to haul this mainsail close up," I said. The
shadows swayed away from me without a word. Those men
were the ghosts of themselves, and their weight on a rope could
be no more than the weight of a bunch of ghosts. Indeed, if ever
a sail was hauled up by sheer spiritual strength it must have
been that sail; for, properly speaking, there was not muscle
enough for the task in the whole ship, let alone the miserable
lot of us on deck. Of course, I took the lead in the work myself.
They wandered feebly after me from rope to rope, stumbling
and panting. They toiled like Titans. We were an hour at it at
least, and all the time the black universe made no sound. When
the last leech-line was made fast, my eyes, accustomed to the
darkness, made out the shapes of exhausted men dropping over
the rails, collapsed on hatches. One hung over the after-capstan,
sobbing for breath; and I stood amongst them like a tower of
strength, impervious to disease and feeling only the sickness of
my soul. I waited for some time, fighting against the weight of
my sins, against my sense of unworthiness, and then I said:
"Now, men, we'll go aft and square the mainyard. That's
about all we can do for the ship; and for the rest she must take
her chance."
JOSEPH CONRAD The Shadow-Line (1917)
THERE ARE MANY WAYS by which one text can refer to another:
parody, pastiche, echo, allusion, direct quotation, structural parallelism. Some theorists believe that intertextuality is the very
condition of literature, that all texts are woven from the tissues of
98
other texts, whether their authors know it or not. Writers committed to documentary-style realism will tend to deny or suppress this
principle. Samuel Richardson, for instance, thought he had
invented an entirely new kind of fiction which was quite independent of earlier literature, but it is easy to see in Pamela (1740), his
story of a virtuous maidservant who marries her master after many
trials and tribulations, a fairy-tale archetype. The next important
English novel was Henry Fielding's Joseph Andrews (1742), which
starts out as a parody of Pamela, and incorporates a reworking of
the parable of the Good Samaritan and many passages written in
mock-heroic style. Intertextuality, in short, is entwined in the roots
of the English novel, while at the other end of the chronological
spectrum novelists have tended to exploit rather than resist it,
freely recycling old myths and earlier works of literature to shape,
or add resonance to, their presentation of contemporary life.
Some writers signpost such references more explicitly than
others. James Joyce tipped off his readers by entitling his epic of
modern Dublin life Ulysses, Nabokov by giving Lolita's precursor
the name of Poe's Annabel. Conrad may have been conveying a
subtler hint in the subtitle of The Shadow-Line: "A Confession."
This novella, autobiographical in origin, is the account of a
young merchant naval officer who, while waiting in a Far Eastern
port for a passage home, is unexpectedly offered his first command,
a sailing ship whose captain has died at sea. Setting out into the
Gulf of Siam, he soon discovers that the deceased captain was
deranged, and his own first mate believes that the old man has put
a curse on the ship. This fear seems confirmed when the vessel is
becalmed, the crew fall sick with fever, and the young captain
discovers that his predecessor has destroyed all the stocks of
quinine. Then, in the middle of a pitch-black night, there are signs
of a change in the weather.
The description of the sick and enfeebled sailors obeying their
captain's command to haul up the mainsail, so that the ship can
run with the wind when it comes, shows in its technical detail
("leech-line", "after-capstan", "square the mainyard") that Conrad
knew what he was talking about - he was of course a master
mariner with twenty years experience at sea. But it also recalls a
99
INTERTEXTUALITY
passage in one of the most famous poems in English literature,
Samuel Taylor Coleridge's "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner",
where the dead sailors rise from the decks of the enchanted ship
and man the rigging:
The mariners all gan work the ropes,
Where they were wont to do;
They raised their limbs like lifeless tools -
We were a ghastly crew.
The Mariner kills an albatross, brings a curse on his ship in the
form of calm and pestilence, is released from it when he blesses
the watersnakes unawares, and wafted back home by supernatural
agencies; he alone survives the ordeal, but feels guilt and responsibility for his shipmates' fate. In Conrad's story the evil deed which
curses the ship is transferred to the dead captain, but for the
narrator the sequel is a quasi-religious experience not unlike the
Mariner's. What might have been merely a ripping yarn becomes a
rite of passage across the "shadow-line" that divides innocence
from experience, youth from maturity, arrogance from humility.
Unaccountably spared the fever (like the Mariner) the young
captain feels "the sickness of my soul... the weight of my sins .. .
my sense of unworthiness." He is haunted by the "vision of a ship
drifting in calm and swinging in light airs, with all the crew dying
slowly about her decks." After the mainsail is raised and the wind
springs up, he reflects, "the malicious spectre had been laid, the
evil spell broken, the curse removed. We were now in the hands of
a kind and energetic providence. It was rushing us on ..."
Compare:
Swiftly, swiftly flew the ship,
Yet she sailed softly too:
Sweetly, sweetly blew the breeze -
On me alone it blew.
When the ship in Conrad's story finally arrives in port, flying the
signal requesting medical assistance, the naval surgeons who board
her are as astonished to find the decks deserted as the Pilot and
ioo
INTERTEXTUALITY
the Hermit are, in Coleridge's poem, at the return of the Mariner
in sole charge of his ship. Like the Ancient Mariner, the captain
cannot rid himself of a sense of responsibility for the sufferings of
his crew. As they are removed from the ship, he says, "They passed
under my eyes one after another - each of them an embodied
reproach of the bitterest kind ... " Compare:
The pang, the curse, with which they died,
Had never passed away:
I could not draw my eyes from theirs,
Nor turn them up to pray.
Like the Mariner, who "stoppeth one in three" to unburden
himself, the captain is impelled to make a "confession" of his
experience.
Whether Conrad consciously intended these allusions cannot be
proved from the text, and though it might be interesting to try and
find out, the answer wouldn't make much difference. The echoes
are evidence that he knew Coleridge's poem, but he might have
reproduced them unconsciously (though I personally doubt it), just
as they may have a subliminal effect on readers who have read the
poem and forgotten it, or know it only through selective quotation.
It was certainly not the first or only occasion on which Conrad
employed literary allusion in this way. Marlow's journey up the
Congo in Heart of Darkness is explicitly compared to Dante's
descent into the circles of hell in the Inferno, and his late novel
Victory is modelled on Shakespeare's The Tempest.
James Joyce's Ulysses is probably the most celebrated and influential
example of intertextuality in modern literature. When it appeared
in 1922, T. S. Eliot hailed Joyce's use of the Odyssey as a structural
device, "manipulating a continuous parallel between contemporaneity and antiquity", as an exciting technical breakthrough, "a
step towards making the modern world possible for art." Since
Eliot had been reading Joyce's novel in serial form over the
preceding years, while working on his own great poem "The Waste
Land", also published in 1922, in which he manipulated a contin101
INTERTEXTUALITY
uous parallel between contemporaneity and the Grail legend, we
may interpret his praise of Ulysses as part acknowledgment, and
part manifesto. But in neither work is intertextuality limited to one
source, or to structural parallelism. "The Waste Land" echoes
many different sources; Ulysses is full of parody, pastiche, quotations from and allusions to all kinds of texts. There is, for
instance, a chapter set in a newspaper office, divided into sections
with headlines that mimic the development of journalistic style, a
chapter written largely in a pastiche of cheap women's magazines,
and another, set in a maternity hospital, that parodies the historical
development of English prose from the Anglo-Saxon period to the
twentieth century.
Since I combined writing fiction with an academic career for
nearly thirty years it is not surprising that my own novels became
increasingly intertextual; and, as it happens, both Joyce and Eliot
were significant influences in this respect, especially the former.
The parodies in The British Museum is Falling Down were inspired
by the example of Ulysses, as was its one-day action, and the last
chapter is a rather cheeky hommage to Molly Bloom's monologue.
The "break-through" point in the genesis of Small World came
when I perceived the possibility of basing a comic-satiric novel
about the academic jet-set, zooming round the world to international conferences where they competed with each other both
professionally and erotically, on the story of King Arthur and his
knights of the Round Table and their quest for the Grail, especially
as interpreted by Jessie L. Weston in a book that T. S. Eliot had
raided for "The Waste Land". I have written elsewhere about the
genesis of these novels (in the Afterword to The British Museum
and in Write On) and mention them here to make the point that
intertextuality is not, or not necessarily, a merely decorative
addition to a text, but sometimes a crucial factor in its conception
and composition.
There is however another aspect of the art of fiction, known
only to writers, which often involves intertextuality, and that is the
Missed Opportunity. Inevitably, in the course of reading, one
sometimes comes across echoes, anticipations and analogues of
one's own work long after the latter is finished and done with, too
102
INTERTEXTUALITY
late to take advantage of the discovery. Towards the end of Small
World there is a scene set in New York during the MLA Convention, which is always held in the last days of December. Following
the triumph of the hero, Persse McGarrigle, at the session on the
Function of Criticism, there is an astonishing change in the
weather, a warm southerly airstream raising the temperature in
Manhattan to a level unprecedented at that season. In the mythic
scheme of the book, this is equivalent to the fertilization of the
Fisher King's barren kingdom in the Grail Legend, as a result of
the Grail Knight asking the necessary question. Arthur Kingfisher,
the doyen of modern academic criticism presiding over the Convention, feels the curse of sexual impotence miraculously lifted from
him. He tells his Korean mistress, Song-mi:
"It's like the halcyon days .. . A period of calm weather in the
middle of winter. The ancients used to call them the halcyon
days, when the kingfisher was supposed to hatch its eggs.
Remember Milton - 'The bird sits brooding on the charmed wave*?
The bird was a kingfisher. That's what 'halcyon' means in Greek,
Song-mi: kingfisher. The halcyon days were kingfisher days. My
days. Our days."
He might have gone on to quote another, wonderfully apposite
snatch of verse:
Kingfisher weather, with a light fair breeze,
Full canvas, and the eight sails drawing well.
And he might have added: "They were the best Unes in 'The
Waste Land', but Ezra Pound persuaded Tom Eliot to cut them
out." Unfortunately I didn't come across these lines, in Valerie
Eliot's edition of The Waste Land: a facsimile and transcript of the
original drafts including the annotations of Ezra Pound, until some
time after Small World had been published.
103
22 The Experimental Novel
Bridesley, Birmingham.
Two o'clock. Thousands came back from dinner along streets.
"What we want is go, push," said works manager to son of Mr
Dupret. "What I say to them is - let's get on with it, let's get the
stuff out."
Thousands came back to factories they worked in from their
dinners.
"I'm always at them but they know me. They know I'm a
father and mother to them. If they're in trouble they've but to
come to me. And they turn out beautiful work, beautiful work.
I'd do anything for 'em and they know it."
Noise of lathes working began again in this factory. Hundreds
went along road outside, men and girls. Some turned in to
Dupret factory.
Some had stayed in iron foundry shop in this factory for dinner.
They sat round brazier in a circle.
"And I was standing by the stores in the doorway with me
back to the door into the pipe shop with a false nose on and
green whiskers. Albert inside was laughin' and laughin' again
when Tis 'im comes in through the pipe shop and I sees Albert
draw up but I didn't take much notice till I heard, 'Ain't you got
nothin' better to do Gates but make a fool of yourself?' And 'e
says to Albert, 'What would you be standin' there for Milligan?'
And I was too surprised to take the nose off, it was so sudden. I
shan't ever forget that."
HENRY GREEN Living (1929)
104
"THE EXPERIMENTAL NOVEL" was a phrase coined by Zola to claim
some equivalence between his sociologically oriented fiction and
scientific investigation of the natural world, but this comparison
will not stand up to scrutiny. A work of fiction is not a reliable
method of verifying or falsifying a hypothesis about society, and
"experiment" in literature, as in other arts, is more usefully
regarded as a radical approach to the perennial task of "defamiliarization" (see Section n). An experimental novel is one that
ostentatiously deviates from the received ways of representing
reality - either in narrative organization or in style, or in both - to
heighten or change our perception of that reality.
The second and third decades of the twentieth century, the
heyday of modernism, were notable for experimental fiction -
Dorothy Richardson, James Joyce, Gertrude Stein and Virginia
Woolf are just a few names that come to mind. One writer's
experiments, however, are quickly appropriated and put to different
uses by others, so it is usually difficult to attribute the discovery of
a particular technique to a single author. The opening of Henry
Green's Living is unmistakably of its period in method. The abrupt
shifting of the discourse from narrative to dialogue and back to
narrative, without smooth transitions or explanatory links, is analogous to, and perhaps directly influenced by, the cubist compositions of Picasso, the cinematic jump-cuts of Eisenstein, the
fragments T. S. Eliot shored against his ruins in "The Waste
Land". Fragmentation, discontinuity, montage, are pervasive in the
experimental art of the nineteen-twenties.
But there is one feature of Living that was an original innovation
of Henry Green's, and that is the systematic omission of articles
(a> the) from the narrative discourse. It is not absolutely consistent
(in this passage the men "sat round brazier in a circle"), but it is
sufficiently thoroughgoing to arrest the reader's attention,
reinforcing the effect of other, more familiar types of condensation
(the omission of finite verbs, for instance, and of nouns and
adjectives with sensuous or emotive weight). Where a conventionally smooth, elegant narrative prose would read, "It was two o 'clock.
Thousands of workers came back from their dinners along the streets^ or
even, in a more old-fashioned literary style, "Thousands of factory
105
THE EXPERIMENTAL NOVEL
hands wearing cloth caps and headscarves hurried back through the drab
streets from their hastily consumed mid-day meals? Henry Green
writes: "Two o'clock. Thousands came back from dinner along
streets."
Henry Green was the pen-name of Henry Yorke, whose family
owned an engineering firm in Birmingham. Henry trained to
become its managing director by working his way up through the
various departments from the shop floor, acquiring in the process
a priceless understanding of the nature of industrial work, and a
deep affection and respect for the men and women who laboured
at it. Living is a wonderful celebration, tender without being
sentimental, of English working-class life at a particular moment
in time.
One of the difficulties of writing truthfully about working-class
life in fiction, especially evident in the well-intentioned industrial
novels of the Victorian age, is that the novel itself is an inherently
middle-class form, and its narrative voice is apt to betray this bias
in every turn of phrase. It is hard for the novel not to seem
condescending to the experience it depicts in the contrast between
the polite, well-formed, educated discourse of the narrator and the
rough, colloquial, dialect speech of the characters. Consider, for
example, Dickens's handling of the scene in Hard Times where
Stephen Blackpool refuses to join in a Trade Union strike on
conscientious grounds:
"Stephen Blackpool," said the chairman, rising, "think on't agen.
Think on't once agen lad, afore thour't shunned by aw owd
friends."
There was a universal murmur to the same effect, though no
man articulated a word. Every eye was fixed on Stephen's face.
To repent of his determination, would be to take a load from all
their minds. He looked around him, and knew that it was so. Not
a grain of anger with them was in his heart; he knew them, far
below their surface weaknesses and misconceptions, as no-one
but their fellow labourer could.
"I ha thowt on't, above a bit, sir. I simply canna come in. I
mun go th' way as lays afore me. I mun tak my leave o'aw heer."
106
THE EXPERIMENTAL NOVEL
Green tried to close such a painfully obvious gap between
authorial speech and characters' speech in Living by deliberately
deforming the narrative discourse - giving it, as he said himself,
something of the compactness of Midland dialect and avoiding
"easy elegance". Not that the narrative sentences are in the same
register as the characters' dialogue. There is a bleak, functional
economy about the former, expressive of the mechanical, repetitive
routines that industry imposes on its workers, to which the speech
of the characters offers a kind of resistance in its poetic redundancies ("beautiful work, beautiful work") proverbial phrases ("a father
and mother to them") and private codes (the works manager is
known by the phrase used to warn of his approach, "'Tis 'im"). By
such experiments with style an old Etonian, improbably enough,
produced what is arguably the best novel ever written about
factories and factory workers.
It is easy to accept and appreciate experiments like Green's that
have some discoverable mimetic or expressive purpose. More
problematical are stylistic deviations which set an arbitrary, artificial
obstacle between the language of prose and its normal functions,
such as the "lipogram", in which a letter of the alphabet is
systematically omitted. The late Georges Perec, a French novelist
best known for his Life: A User's Manual, wrote a novel called La
Disparition which excludes use of the letter "e", for instance, a feat
even more astonishing in French than it would be in English
(though one does not envy Gilbert Adair, currently reported to be
engaged in translating it). The contemporary American writer,
Walter Abish, wrote a novel called Alphabetical Africa, the chapters
of which conform to the following fiendishly difficult rule: the first
chapter contains only words beginning with "A" ("Africa again:
Albert arrives, alive and arguing about African art, about African
angst and also, alas, attacking Ashanti architecture ..."); chapter
two contains only words beginning with B and A, the third only
words beginning with C, B, A; and so on, each succeeding chapter
being allowed to draw on words beginning with an additional letter
of the alphabet, until Z is reached; upon which the novel reverses
107
THE EXPERIMENTAL NOVEL
itself and the range of available words shrinks, chapter by chapter,
initial letter by initial letter, until A is reached again.
These works are probably more fun to read about than to read.
Such drastic and all-embracing constraints obviously preclude the
composition of a novel according to normal procedures - starting
with a thematic and/or narrative kernel, which is expanded by the
invention of actions and actants according to some kind of narrative
logic. The challenge is to tell any kind of coherent story at all
within the self-imposed constraints of the form; and the motive,
presumably (apart from the writer's satisfaction in testing his own
ingenuity) is the hope that the constraints will yield the kind of
pleasure that comes from the achievement of formal symmetry
against odds, and also lead to the generation of meanings that
would not otherwise have occurred to the author. In this respect
such experiments in prose resemble very ordinary features of
poetry, such as rhyme and stanzaic form. They seem to constitute
a deliberate transgression of the boundary that normally separates
these two forms of discourse, and, astonishingly clever as they are,
to be "marginal" to the art of fiction.
108
23 The Comic Novel
"Let's see now; what's the exact title you've given it?" Dixon
looked out of the window at the fields wheeling past, bright
green after a wet April. It wasn't the double-exposure effect of
the last half-minute's talk that had dumbfounded him, for such
incidents formed the staple material of Welch colloquies; it was
the prospect of reciting the title of the article he'd written. It
was a perfect tide, in that it crystallized the article's niggling
mindlessness, its funereal parade of yawn-enforcing facts, the
pseudo-light it threw upon non-problems. Dixon had read, or
begun to read, dozens like it, but his own seemed worse than
most in its air of being convinced of its own usefulness and
significance. "In considering this strangely neglected topic," it
began. This what neglected topic? This strangely what topic?
This strangely neglected what? His thinking all this without
having defiled and set fire to the typescript only made him
appear to himself as more of a hypocrite and fool. "Let's see,"
he echoed Welch in a pretended effort of memory: "oh yes; The
Economic Influence of the Developments in Shipbuilding Techniques, 1450 to 1485. After all, that's what it's ..."
Unable to finish his sentence, he looked to his left again to
find a man's face staring into his own from about nine inches
away. The face, which filled with alarm as he gazed, belonged
to the driver of a van which Welch had elected to pass on a
sharp bend between two stone walls. A huge bus now swung
into view from further round the bend. Welch slowed slightly,
thus ensuring that they would still be next to the van when the
bus reached them, and said with decision: "Well, that ought to
do it nicely, I should say."
KINGSLEY AMIS Lucky Jim (1954)
109
T HE COMIC NOVEL is a very English, or at least British and Irish,
kind of fiction, that does not always travel well. Reviewing one of
Kingsley Amis's later novels, Jake's Thing, John Updike said rather
condescendingly, "his ambition and reputation alike remain in
thrall to the 'comic novel'," adding: "There is no need to write
Tunny novels' when life's actual juxtapositions, set down attentively, are comedy enough." Enough for whom, one has to ask.
Certainly the English novel tradition is remarkable for the number
of comic novels among its classics, from the work of Fielding, and
Sterne and Smollett in the eighteenth century, through Jane
Austen and Dickens in the nineteenth, to Evelyn Waugh in the
twentieth. Even novelists whose primary intention is not to write
funny novels, such as George Eliot, Thomas Hardy and E. M.
Forster, have scenes in their fiction which make us laugh aloud,
even on repeated acquaintance.
Comedy in fiction would appear to have two primary sources,
though they are intimately connected: situation (which entails character - a situation that is comic for one character wouldn't necessarily
be so for another) and style. Both depend crucially upon timing, that
is to say, the order in which the words, and the information they
carry, are arranged. The principle can be illustrated by a single
sentence from Evelyn Waugh's Decline and Fall. At the beginning of
the novel, the shy, unassuming hero, Paul Pennyfeather, an Oxford
undergraduate, is divested of his trousers by a party of drunken
aristocratic hearties, and with monstrous injustice is sent down from
the University for indecent behaviour. The first chapter concludes:
"God damn and blast them all to hell," said Paul Pennyfeather
meekly to himself as he drove to the station, and then he felt
rather ashamed, because he rarely swore.
If we laugh at this, and I think most readers do, it is because of the
delayed appearance of the word "meekly": what appears, as the
sentence begins, to be a long-overdue explosion of righteous anger
by the victimized hero turns out to be no such thing, but a further
exemplification of his timidity and passiveness. The effect would
be destroyed if the sentence ran: "Paul Pennyfeather said meekly
n o
THE COMIC NOVEL
to himself, as he drove to the station, 'God damn and blast them
all to hell ...'" This suggests another characteristic of comedy in
fiction: a combination of surprise (Paul is at last expressing his
feelings) and conformity to pattern (no he isn't after all).
Humour is a notoriously subjective matter, but it would be a
very stony-hearted reader who did not crack a smile at the passage
from Lucky Jfim, which exhibits all these properties of comic fiction
in a highly polished form. As a temporary assistant lecturer at a
provincial university, Jim Dixon is totally dependent for the
continuance of his employment on his absent-minded professor's
patronage, which itself requires that Jim should demonstrate his
professional competence by publishing a scholarly article. Jim
despises both his professor and the rituals of academic scholarship,
but cannot afford to say so. His resentment is therefore interiorized, sometimes in fantasies of violence (e.g. "to tie Welch up in
his chair and beat him about the head and shoulders with a bottle
until he disclosed why, without being French himself, he'd given
his sons French names") and at other times, as here, in satirical
mental commentary upon the behaviour, discourses and institutional codes which oppress him.
The style of Lucky Jim introduced a new tone of voice into
English fiction. It was educated but classless, eloquent but not
conventionally elegant. In its scrupulous, sceptical precision it
owed something to the "ordinary language" philosophy that dominated Oxford when Amis was a student (an influence particularly
evident in "the pseudo-light it threw upon non-problems"). It is
full of little surprises, qualifications and reversals, which satirically
deconstruct clichés and stock responses.
Dixon doesn't immediately answer Welch's question about the
title of his article, though "it wasn't the double-exposure effect of
the last half-minute's talk that had dumbfounded him." If it wasn't,
why tell us? There are two reasons: (i) it makes an amusing
metaphorical comment on Welch's irritating habit of saying, as if
he had just thought of it, something Jim has just said himself, and
(2) it creates a delay, a tiny moment of comic suspense, that
enhances the revelation of the real reason for Jim's silence: his
embarrassment at having to recite the title of his article. It is a
m
THE COMIC NOVEL
"perfect" title only in the ironical sense that it distils every feature
of academic discourse that Jim despises. "Dixon had read, or begun
to read, dozens like it ..." The phrase I have italicized tells us
much about Jim's bored and impatient perusal of academic journals. His superbly destructive analysis of the article's opening
sentence, in which each word of a conventional scholarly formula
is subjected in turn to derisive interrogation, needs no further
comment. There follows a characteristic condemnation by Jim of
his own intellectual bad faith, a condition from which he will
eventually release himself involuntarily by his drunken lecture on
Merrie England. Then, at long last, we get the title of the article,
an epitome of dryasdust scholarship that many academic readers
of my acquaintance have committed to memory. This utterance
could have followed immediately upon Welch's question without
detriment to narrative cohesion, but with a huge loss of comic
effect.
Jim's powerlessness is physically epitomized by his being a
passenger in Welch's car, and a helpless victim of his appalling
driving. The banal and apparently superfluous earlier sentence
about Dixon looking out of the car at the green fields now proves
to have a function. Looking through the same window moments
later, Jim is startled to find "a man's face staring into his from
about nine inches away." Surprise is combined with conformity to
pattern (Welch's incompetence). A slow-motion effect is created
by the leisurely precision of the language ("about nine inches
away", "filled with alarm", "had elected to pass") contrasting
comically with the speed with which the imminent collision
approaches. The reader is not told immediately what is happening,
but made to infer it, re-enacting the character's surprise and alarm.
It's all in the timing.
112
24 Magic Realism
And then suddenly they were all singing the three or four
simple notes again, speeding up the steps of their dance, fleeing
rest and sleep, outstripping time, and filling their innocence
with strength. Everyone was smiling, and Eluard leaned down
to a girl he had his arm around and said,
A man possessed by peace never stops smiling.
And she laughed and stamped the ground a little harder and
rose a few inches above the pavement, pulling the others along
with her, and before long not one of them was touching the
ground, they were taking two steps in place and one step
forward without touching the ground, yes, they were rising up
over Wenceslaus Square, their ring the very image of a giant
wreath taking flight, and I ran off after them down on the
ground, I kept looking up at them, and they floated on, lifting
first one leg, then the other, and down below - Prague with its
cafés full of poets and its jails full of traitors, and in the
crematorium they were just finishing off one Socialist representative and one surrealist, and the smoke climbed to the
heavens like a good omen, and I heard Eluard's metallic voice
intoning,
Love is at work it is tireless,
and I ran after that voice through the streets in the hope of
keeping up with that wonderful wreath of bodies rising above
the city, and I realized with anguish in my heart that they were
flying like birds and I was falling like a stone, that they had
wings and I would never have any.
MILAN KUNDERA The Book ofLaughter and
Forgetting (1978)
" 3
MAGIC REALISM
MAGIC REALISM - when marvellous and impossible events occur in
what otherwise purports to be a realistic narrative - is an effect
especially associated with contemporary Latin-American fiction
(for example the work of the Colombian novelist, Gabriel Garcia
Marquez) but it is also encountered in novels from other continents, such as those of Gunter Grass, Salman Rushdie and Milan
Kundera. All these writers have lived through great historical
convulsions and wrenching personal upheavals, which they feel
cannot be adequately represented in a discourse of undisturbed
realism. Perhaps Britain's relatively untraumatic modern history
has encouraged its writers to persevere with traditional realism.
The magic variety has been imported into our fiction from outside
rather than springing up spontaneously, though it has been
enthusiastically embraced by a few native English novelists,
especially women novelists with strong views about gender, such as
Fay Weldon, Angela Carter and Jeannette Winterson.
Since defiance of gravity has always been a human dream of the
impossible, it is perhaps not surprising that images of flight,
lévitation and free fall often occur in this kind of fiction. In
Mârquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude a character ascends to
heaven while hanging out the washing. At the beginning of Salman
Rushdie's The Satanic Verses the two chief characters fall from an
exploded jumbo-jet, clinging to each other and singing rival songs,
to alight unharmed on a snow-covered English beach. The heroine
of Angela Carter's Nights at the Circus is a trapeze artist called
Fewers, whose gorgeous plumage is not mere stage-costume, but
wings that enable her to fly. Jeannette Winterson's Sexing the Cherry
has a floating city with floating inhabitants - "After a few simple
experiments it became certain that for the people who had
abandoned gravity, gravity had abandoned them." And in this
passage from The Book of Laughter and Forgetting the author claims
to have seen a circle of dancers rise into the air and float away.
Milan Kundera was one of many young Czechs who welcomed
the Communist coup of 1948, hopeful that it would usher in a
brave new world of freedom and justice. He was soon disillusioned,
"said something that would have been better left unsaid," and was
expelled from the Party. His subsequent experiences formed the
1 1 4
MAGIC REALISM
basis of his fine first novel, The Joke (1967). In The Book of Laughter
and Forgetting (1978) he explored the public ironies and private
tragedies of post-war Czech history in a looser, more fragmentary
narrative that moves freely between documentary, autobiography
and fantasy.
The narrator's sense of being expelled from human fellowship
as well as from the Party, of being made an "unperson", is
symbolized by his exclusion from the rings of dancing students that
routinely celebrate Party-approved anniversaries. He recalls a
particular day in June 1950 when "the streets of Prague were once
again crowded with young people dancing in rings. I wandered
from one to the next, stood as close as I could to them, but I was
forbidden entrance." The day before, a Socialist politician and a
surrealist artist were hanged as "enemies of the state". The
surrealist, Zavis Kalandra, had been a friend of Paul Eluard, at
that time probably the most celebrated Communist poet in the
Western world, who might have saved him. But Eluard refused to
intervene: he was "too busy dancing in the gigantic ring encircling
. . . all the socialist countries and all the Communist parties of the
world; too busy reciting his beautiful poems about joy and
brotherhood."
Wandering through the streets, Kundera suddenly comes across
Eluard himself dancing in a ring of young people. "Yes, there was
no doubt about it. The toast of Prague. Paul Eluard!" Eluard
begins to recite one of his high-minded poems about joy and
brotherhood, and the narrative "takes off", both literally and
metaphorically. The ring of dancers rises from the ground and
begins to float into the sky. This is an impossible event. Yet we
suspend our disbelief, because it so powerfully and poignantly
expresses the emotion that has been built up over the preceding
pages. The image of the dancers rising into the air, still lifting their
feet in unison, as the smoke of two cremated victims of the State
climbs into the same sky, epitomizes the fatuous self-deception of
the comrades, their anxiety to declare their own purity and
innocence, their determination not to see the terror and injustice
of the political system they serve. But it also expresses the envy
and loneliness of the authorial persona, banished for ever from the
" 5
MAGIC REALISM
euphoria and security of the collective dance. One of Kundera's
most appealing characteristics is that he never claims a heroic
martyr's status for himself, and never underestimates the ordinary
human cost of being a dissident.
I don't know how this passage reads in the original Czech, but it
works remarkably well in translation, perhaps because it is so
brilliantly visualized. Kundera taught film in Prague for a period,
and this description shows a cinematic sense of composition in the
way its perspective shifts between the aerial panorama of Prague
and the longing upward gaze of the narrator as he runs through
the streets. The floating ring of dancers itself is like a filmic
"special effect". Grammatically this extract consists mostly of one
immensely long sentence; its clauses are the equivalents of "shots",
joined together by the simple conjunction and in a flowing
sequence that refuses to give priority to either the narrator's sense
of irony or his sense of loss. They are inseparably intertwined.
116
25 Staying on the Surface
And there is much to talk over. "What do you fear from her?"
asks Flora, her big weight lying on top of Howard, her breasts
before his face. "I think," says Howard, "we compete too closely
in the same area. It makes sense. Her role's still bound too
tightly to mine; that traps her growth, so she feels compelled to
undermine me. Destroy me from within." "Are you comfortable
there?" says Flora, "I'm not squashing you?" "No," says Howard.
"Destroy you how?" asks Flora. "She has to find a weak core in
me," says Howard. "She wants to convince herself that I'm false
and fake." "You have a lovely chest, Howard," says Flora. "So
do you, Flora," says Howard. "Are you false and fake?" asks
Flora. "I don't think so," says Howard, "not more than anyone
else. I just have a passion to make things happen. To get some
order into the chaos. Which she sees as a trendy radicalism."
"Oh, Howard," says Flora, "she's cleverer than I thought. Is she
having affairs?" "I think so," says Howard. "Can you move,
you're hurting me?" Flora tumbles off him and lies by his side;
they rest there, faces upward toward the ceiling, in her white
apartment. "Don't you know?" asks Flora. "Don't you bother to
find out?" "No," says Howard. "You have no proper curiosity,"
says Flora. "There's a living psychology there, and you're not
interested. No wonder she wants to destroy you." "We believe
in going our own way," says Howard. "Cover yourself up with
the sheet," says Flora, "you're sweating. That's how people
catch colds. Anyway, you stay together." "Yes, we stay together,
but we distrust one another." "Ah, yes," says Flora, turning on
her side to look at him, so that her big right breast dips against
his body, and wearing a puzzled expression on her face, "but
isn't that a definition of marriage?"
MALCOLM BRADBURY The History Man (1975)
117
I SUGGESTED earlier (Section 9) that the novel is supreme among
the forms of narrative literature in rendering subjectivity. The
earliest English novels - Defoe's Robinson Crusoe, Richardson's
Pamela - used journals and letters to portray the inner thoughts of
their characters with unprecedented realism; and the subsequent
development of the genre, at least up to Joyce and Proust, can be
seen in terms of a progressively deeper and subtler exploration of
consciousness. So when a novelist chooses to stay on the surface
of human behaviour we register the absence of psychological depth
with a surprised attentiveness, and perhaps uneasiness, even if we
cannot immediately put our ringer on the reason.
Malcolm Bradbury's The History Man is such a novel. It concerns
a sociology lecturer who has just written a book called The Defeat
of Privacy, dedicated to the proposition that "there are no more
private selves." Howard Kirk believes that the self is an outmoded
bourgeois concept, that individual human beings are mere bundles
of conditioned reflexes; and that the only way to be free is to
identify the plot of History (with the aid of Marxist sociology) and
co-operate with it. By staying on the surface of behaviour and
environment, the discourse of the novel imitates this bleak, antihumanist philosophy of life in a way which seems to satirize it, yet
gives the reader no privileged vantage-point from which to condemn or dismiss it. Although the story is told mainly from
Howard's point of view, in the sense that he is present at most of
the events it describes, the narrative does not enable us to judge
his motives by giving us access to his private thoughts. The same
goes for the other characters, including Kirk's antagonists.
The novel consists of description and dialogue. The description
focuses obsessively on the surfaces of things - the décor of the
Kirks' house, the bleak, dehumanizing architecture of the campus,
the outward behaviour of staff and students in seminars, committees and parties. The dialogue is presented flatly, objectively,
without introspective interpretation by the characters, without
authorial commentary, without any variation on the simple, adverbless speech tags he/she asks/says, without even breaks between the
lines of speech. The "depthlessness" of the discourse is further
emphasized by its preference for the present tense. The past tense
1 1 8
STAYING ON THE SURFACE
of conventional narrative implies that the story is known to and has
been assessed by the narrator in its entirety. In this novel the
narrative discourse impassively tracks the characters as they move
from moment to moment towards an unknown future.
The effect, at once comic and chilling, of this technique is
particularly striking in scenes of sexual intercourse, where one
would normally expect to find an internalized account of the
emotions and sensations of at least one of the participants. In the
passage quoted here, Howard Kirk is in bed with his colleague
Flora Beniform, "who likes going to bed with men who have
troubled marriages; they have so much more to talk about, hot as
they are from the intricate politics of families which are Flora's
specialist field of study," and they are talking about Howard's
relationship with his wife Barbara.
There is of course comedy inherent in the idea of having sex in
order to talk, especially about one's lover's marriage, and in the
contrast drawn here between the intimate physical contact of the
couple's bodies and the abstract intellectualism of their conversation. But there is more than comic incongruity in the way the
dialogue zig-zags between the physical and cerebral, the trivial and
the portentous. When Howard says his wife wants to convince
herself that he is false and fake, he articulates the central issue of
the novel. Flora at first seems to evade it with a gesture towards
eros: "You have a lovely chest, Howard." His rejoinder, "So do
you, Flora," is funny, but the joke is at whose expense? We have to
make up our own minds, just as we do on the more momentous
question. Is Howard false and fake? Or is his "passion to make
things happen" a kind of integrity, a manifestation of energy in a
world of moral entropy? The absence of interiority, which would
help to decide such questions, throws the burden of interpretation
back onto the reader.
Many found the text's refusal to comment, to give unambiguous
guidance as to how its characters should be evaluated, disturbing,
but this is undoubtedly the source of its power and fascination. It
is interesting in this connection to compare the BBC Television
adaptation of the novel. The script, by Christopher Hampton, was
1 19
STAYING ON THE SURFACE
very faithful to the original novel, and the production was extremely
well cast, directed and acted. Anthony Sher was stunning in the
role of Howard Kirk - but, as an actor, he had to give an
interpretation of the role, and, probably inevitably, chose to portray
him unambiguously as a despicable manipulator and exploiter of
other people for his own gratification. In this way the television
version took back much of the burden of interpretation which the
novel had planted firmly in the audience's lap, and to that extent it
was, though hugely enjoyable, a less challenging piece of work. (It
has to be said, too, that in the rendering of the scene quoted here,
one's attention was somewhat distracted from the witty dialogue by
the visible evidence of Flora Beniform's beautiful chest.)
120
2 6 Showing and Telling
"You are too much inclined to passion, child, and have set your
affections so absolutely on this young woman, that, if G -
required her at your hands, I fear you would reluctantly part
with her. Now, believe me, no Christian ought so to set his heart
on any person or thing in this world, but that, whenever it shall
be required or taken from him in any manner by Divine
Providence, he may be able, peaceably, quietly, and contentedly,
to resign it." At which words one came hastily in, and
acquainted Mr Adams that his youngest son was drowned. He
stood silent a moment, and soon began to stamp about the room
and deplore his loss with the bitterest agony. Joseph, who was
overwhelmed with concern likewise, recovered himself sufficiently to endeavour to comfort the parson; in which attempt
he used many arguments that he had at several times remembered out of his own discourses, both in private and public (for
he was a great enemy to the passions, and preached nothing
more than the conquest of them by reason and grace), but he
was not at leisure now to hearken to his advice. "Child, child,"
said he, "do not go about impossibilities. Had it been any other
of my children, I could have borne it with patience; but my little
prattler, the darling and comfort of my old age - the little
wretch to be snatched out of life just at his entrance into it; the
sweetest, best-tempered boy, who never did a thing to offend
me. It was but this morning I gave him his first lesson in Quae
Genus. This was the very book he learnt; poor child! it is of no
further use to thee now. He would have made the best scholar,
and have been an ornament to the Church; - such parts and
such goodness never met in one so young." "And the handsomest lad too," says Mrs Adams, recovering from a swoon in
Fanny's arms. - 'My poor Jacky, shall I never see thee more?"
cries the parson. - "Yes, surely," says Joseph, "and in a better
place; you will meet again, never to part more." - I believe the
121
parson did not hear these words, for he paid little regard to
them, but went on lamenting, whilst the tears trickled down
into his bosom. At last he cried out, "Where is my little darling?"
and was sallying out, when, to his great surprise and joy, in
which I hope the reader will sympathize, he met his son in a
wet condition indeed, but alive and running towards him.
HENRY FIELDING Joseph Andrews (1742)
FICTIONAL DISCOURSE constantly alternates between showing us
what happened and telling us what happened. The purest form of
showing is the quoted speech of characters, in which language
exactly mirrors the event (because the event is linguistic). The
purest form of telling is authorial summary, in which the conciseness and abstraction of the narrator's language effaces the particularity and individuality of the characters and their actions. A novel
written entirely in the mode of summary would, for this reason, be
almost unreadable. But summary has its uses: it can, for instance,
accelerate the tempo of a narrative, hurrying us through events
which would be uninteresting, or too interesting - therefore
distracting, if lingered over. It is easy to examine this effect in the
work of Henry Fielding, because he was writing before the
technique of free indirect style, in which authorial speech and
characters' speech are fused together, had been discovered (see
Section 9). In his novels the boundary between these two kinds of
discourse is clear and unambiguous.
Parson Abraham Adams is a benevolent, generous, unworldly
man, but he is also a great comic character - one of the most
memorable in English fiction - because he is constantly entrammelled in contradiction. There is always a disparity between what
he believes the world to be (full of people as altruistic as himself)
and what it is really like (full of selfish opportunists); between what
he preaches (a rather austere dogmatic Christianity) and what he
practices (ordinary instinctive human decency). This contrast
between illusion and reality (which Fielding borrowed, with
122
SHOWING AND TELLING
acknowledgment, from Cervantes's characterization of Don Quixote) makes him a constant figure of fun - but a sympathetic one,
because his heart is in the right place even if his judgment is
unreliable.
In this excerpt, Parson Adams is lecturing the hero, Joseph,
about his impatience to marry his sweetheart Fanny, with whom he
has just been reunited after a long and hazardous separation.
Adams subjects the young man to a lengthy sermon, warning him
against lust, and lack of trust in Providence. He invokes the
example of Abraham in the Old Testament, who was ready to
sacrifice his son, Isaac, to God if required. This homily is quoted
verbatim, "shown". Just as Adams has declared that we should
always serenely accept the sacrifices God demands of us, his
principles are put cruelly to the test: "At which words one came
hastily in, and acquainted Mr Adams that his youngest son was
drowned." This is the baldest kind of summary. "Acquainted"
seems a coldly formal word in the context, and we are not even
told who "one" is. The lamentations of the bereaved father and
Joseph's attempts to comfort him are also summarized - but
Adams's rejection of Joseph's counsel is "shown", quoted in full,
"Child, child, do not go about impossibilities ...", to emphasize
the contradiction between his practice and his preaching.
Fielding is playing a risky game here. On the one hand we
register the contradiction as the comic confirmation of a familiar
character trait; on the other hand there is nothing funny about the
death of a child. Our inclination to smile at Abraham Adams's
failure to live up to the sacrificial piety of his biblical namesake is
checked by the pathos of his situation, and the naturalness of his
grief. We hesitate, uncertain how to respond.
Fielding has, however, prepared a way out of the impasse, for
the characters and for the reader. After a few more lines of
lamentation from Mr and Mrs Adams, and vain attempts to console
them by Joseph, Adams discovers that his son has not been
drowned after all. And it is not long, of course, before Adams
blithely resumes his sermon to Joseph about Christian resignation.
The narrator's explanation for the child's survival is that "The
person who brought the news of his misfortune had been a little
123
SHOWING AND TELLING
too eager, as people sometimes are, from, I believe, no very good
principle, to relate ill news, and having seen him fall into the river,
instead of running to his assistance, directly ran to acquaint his
father of a fate which he had concluded to be inevitable," leaving
him to be rescued by somebody else. This explanation is acceptable
partly because it belongs to a series of examples of human folly
and spitefulness that run through the novel; and partly because it
comes very quickly after the event. If the character of the messenger
had been filled in in more detail, and his speech describing the
incident given in direct form, the whole tempo of the scene would
have been more "lifelike" and its emotive effect quite different.
The circumstances of the drowning of the little boy would have
acquired a distressing particularity, and the comic mood of the
novel would have been destroyed irretrievably. When the report
was shown to be false we might, as readers, have felt that we had
been exploited. Fielding avoids these unwanted effects by a
judicious use of summary.
124
27 Telling in Different Voices
Christie is that year's Bachelor Catch. While the winter snow
lies impacted month after month, and half Europe starves, and
the bombers overhead carry food for Germany instead of
bombs, and the gas dwindles to a flicker and the electric lights
waver, and strangers stand close to each other for comfort -
Christie shines before Grace like a beacon of hope and promise.
He is all clear-cut, up-standing (but only in marriage) masculinity. Christie is Grace's ambition. Not a diploma, not a career,
nor the world's recognition, not any more. Just Christie.
She loves him. Oh, indeed she does. Her heart quickens at
the sight of him, her bowels dissolve with longing. But she will
not, she cannot, succumb to his embraces. He takes her on his
boat, well chaperoned (yes, he sails) and up mountains, rather
less chaperoned (yes, he climbs). He offers to buy her a flat (yes,
he can afford to) but no she will not. No diamonds, thank you,
Christie. No wrist watches. No gifts, no bribes, my dearest.
Chocolates, yes, oh thank you! And orchids, and invitations to
dinner and a taxi ride home, and yes, a kiss, and yes, you may
touch my breast (how wicked we are!) and quickly, quickly,
goodnight, Christie. My own, my love, my dearest dear. I would
die for you but I will not sleep with you.
Christie stops off at Soho on the way home and spends an
hour with a tart. How else will he survive?
She loves him. She means to marry him. How else will she
survive?
FAY WELDON Female Friends (1975)
125
IN THE PRECEDING SECTION, discussing the balanced alternation of
telling and showing in Henry Fielding's Joseph Andrews, I suggested
that a novel written entirely in summary form would be almost
unreadable. But a number of contemporary novelists have deliberately gone a long way in that direction, without paying such a heavy
price. The summary narrative method seems to suit our modern
taste for irony, pace and pithiness. It's a particularly effective way
of handling a large cast of characters and a story that spreads itself
over a long period of time, without getting bogged down in the
slow temporal rhythms and dense detail of the classic novel. (I
used it myself, for those reasons, in a novel called Horn Far Can
You Go?) Care must be taken, however, to ensure that the summary
style doesn't become monotonously uniform in vocabulary and
syntax. Fay Weldon's novels, which use summary extensively, are
notable for both their hectic narrative tempo and their stylistic
vivacity.
Female Friends traces the fortunes of three women through the
nineteen-forties, fifties and sixties, focusing on their sexual and
marital experiences, against a background of rapidly changing
social mores. It portrays women as on the whole helpless victims of
their wombs and hearts, craving husbands and lovers even while
being abused and betrayed by them. Men are portrayed as equally
helpless victims of their own egotism and sexual appetites; but
being naturally promiscuous, they get more fun out of the advent
of the Permissive Society than do the female characters. The
passage quoted here, however, deals with an earlier period, the
nineteen-forties, when Nice Girls Didn't, and could use this
assumption as a bargaining counter in the war between the sexes.
Grace is not in fact a virgin, but pretends that she is, knowing that
Christie "feels virginity to be essential in the woman he loves,
while doing his damnedest to dispose of it." Thus both characters
are comically compromised by contradiction and hypocrisy.
The first paragraph evokes the period context - austerity,
shortages, the Cold War - in a brisk sequence of images, like a
cinematic montage, then ironically juxtaposes Grace's private
emotional obsession with these public miseries and anxieties. While
half Europe starves, Grace can think only of how to persuade
126
TELLING IN DIFFERENT VOICES
Christie to marry her. Her ambitions to be a painter (she is a
student at the Slade at this point in the story) are forgotten.
"Christie is Grace's ambition. Not a diploma, not a career, nor the
world's recognition. Just Christie." The discourse here begins to
shift from a précis of events to a précis of Grace's thoughts, an
effect that becomes still more marked towards the end of the next
paragraph.
In fact what we have here is not a single uniform style, like
Fielding's authorial voice in the passage from Joseph Andrews, but
a polyphonic medley of styles, or voices, through which the seriocomic skirmishing of Grace and Christie's courtship is vividly but
concisely evoked. "She loves him. Oh, indeed she does. Her heart
quickens at the sight of him, her bowels dissolve with longing."
Here the narrator seems to borrow the traditional literary discourse
of "love" - love letters, love poetry, love stories. "She cannot
succumb to his embraces" is a cliché straight out of Mills & Boon
romance - its parodie quality underlines the inauthenticity of
Grace's behaviour. The parentheses in the next sentence, ("Yes,
he sails .. . yes, he climbs .. . yes, he can afford to") might be the
narrator anticipating the reader's questions, acknowledging, but
not apologizing for the belatedness of this information. Or they
might be echoes of Grace's boasting about Christie to her female
friends. (A further complication is that the narrator is in fact one
of those friends, Chloe, who writes about herself in the third
person and claims a novelist's knowledge of the secret thoughts of
the other characters.)
"No diamonds, thank you, Christie. No wrist watches. No gifts,
no bribes, my dearest. Chocolates, yes, oh thank you!" Grammatically this, and all the rest of the paragraph, is Grace's direct
speech, but it has no quotation marks round it in the text, and
obviously it isn't the record of a single speech act. It's speech
functioning as summary, a condensation of what Grace said on
several different occasions - or thought, or implied. She would
have said "goodnight" and conceivably "My own, my love, my
dearest dear," but almost certainly not, "I would die for you but I
will not sleep with you," another line that seems to come from
some half-remembered literary source. Two short, symmetrical
127
TELLING IN DIFFERENT VOICES
paragraphs sum up the sexual deadlock in a narrative voice that
drily echoes each character's special pleading.
This passage exemplifies in a striking but by no means unrepresentative way a property of novelistic prose which the Russian critic
Mikhail Bakhtin called "polyphony" or, alternatively, "dialogism".
(Readers antipathetic to literary theory may wish to skip the
remainder of this section; though the subject is of more than
theoretical interest - it is at the very heart of the novel's representation of life.) According to Bakhtin, the language of traditional
epic and lyric poetry, or the language of expository prose, is
"monologic", striving to impose a single vision, or interpretation,
on the world by means of a single unitary style. The novel in
contrast is "dialogic", incorporating many different styles, or voices,
which as it were talk to each other, and to other voices outside the
text, the discourses of culture and society at large. The novel does
this in various ways. At the simplest level there is the alternation of
the narrator's voice with the voices of the characters, rendered in
their own specific accents and idioms of class, region, occupation,
gender etc. We take this for granted in the novel, but it was a
relatively rare phenomenon in narrative literature before the
Renaissance. There is a foundling in Charles Dickens's Our
Mutual Friend called Sloppy, who is adopted by an old woman
called Betty Higden, in whose eyes he is especially gifted. "You
mightn't think it, but Sloppy is a beautiful reader of a newspaper,"
she says. "He do the Police in different voices." Novelists do the
Police in different voices.
"For the prose artist the world is full of other people's words,"
wrote Bakhtin, "among which he must orient himself and whose
speech characteristics he must be able to perceive with a very keen
ear. He must introduce them into the plane of his own discourse,
but in such a way that this plane is not destroyed." Novelists can
do this in various ways. By the technique of free indirect style (see
Section 9) they can combine their own voice with the voices of
their characters in order to render thought and emotion. Or they
can give their own narrative voice a different kind of colouring that
has nothing to do with character. Henry Fielding, for instance,
128
TELLING IN DIFFERENT VOICES
often narrates in a mock-heroic style, applying the language of
classical and neoclassical epic poetry to vulgar brawls or amorous
encounters. This is how he describes the efforts of Mrs Waters to
seduce the eponymous hero of Tom Jones over the supper table:
First, from two lovely blue eyes, whose bright orbs flashed
lightning at their discharge, flew forth two pointed ogles. But
happily for our heroe, hit only a vast piece of beef which he was
then conveying onto his plate, and harmless spent their force.
And so on. Bakhtin called this kind of writing "doubly-oriented
discourse": the language simultaneously describes an action, and
imitates a particular style of speech or writing. In this case an effect
of parody is created because the style is incongruous with the
subject matter, and thus its mannerisms seem absurd and artificial.
The gap between subject matter and style is less obvious in the
passage from Fay Weldon's novel, because the language it borrows
from romantic literary fiction and glossy women's magazines is not
inappropriate to the subject matter, merely exaggerated and clichéridden. Probably one should describe this kind of writing as
"pastiche" rather than parody, or use Bakhtin's own term, "stylization". His categorization of the various levels of speech in
novelistic discourse is complex, but the basic point is simple: the
language of the novel is not a language, but a medley of styles and
voices, and it is this which makes it a supremely democratic, antitotalitarian literary form, in which no ideological or moral position
is immune from challenge and contradiction.
129
28 A Sense of the Past
The great mole was far from isolated that day. There were
fishermen tarring, mending their nets, tinkering with crab- and
lobster-pots. There were better-class people, early visitors, local
residents, strolling beside the still swelling but now mild sea.
Of the woman who stared, Charles noted, there was no sign.
But he did not give her - or the Cobb - a second thought and
set out, with a quick and elastic step very different from his
usual languid town stroll, along the beach under Ware Cleeves
for his destination.
He would have made you smile, for he was carefully equipped
for his role. He wore stout nailed boots and canvas gaiters that
rose to encase Norfolk breeches of heavy flannel. There was a
tight and absurdly long coat to match; a canvas wideawake hat
of an indeterminate beige; a massive ashplant, which he had
bought on his way to the Cobb; and a voluminous rucksack,
from which you might have shaken out an already heavy array
of hammers, wrappings, notebooks, pillboxes, adzes and heaven
knows what else. Nothing is more incomprehensible to us than
the methodicality of the Victorians; one sees it best (at its most
ludicrous) in the advice so liberally handed out to travellers in
the early editions of Baedeker. Where, one wonders, can any
pleasure have been left? How, in the case of Charles, can he not
have seen that light clothes would have been more comfortable?
That a hat was not necessary? That stout nailed boots on a
boulder-strewn beach are as suitable as ice-skates?
JOHN FOWLES The French Lieutenant's Woman (1969)
130
THE FIRST WRITER to use the novel to evoke a sense of the past
with convincing specificity was Sir Walter Scott, in his novels about
seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Scotland, like Waverley
(1814) and The Heart of Midlothian (1816). These were "historical"
novels in that they dealt with historical personages and events; but
they also evoked the past in terms of culture, ideology, manners
and morals - by describing the whole "way of life" of ordinary
people. In so doing Scott had a profound effect on the subsequent
development of prose fiction. It has been said that the Victorian
novel was a kind of historical novel about the present. Many of
them (e.g. Middlemarch, Vanity Fair) were in fact set back in time
from the point of composition, in the period of their authors'
childhood and youth, in order to highlight the phenomenon of
social and cultural change. This effect is easily lost on the modern
reader. Take, for example, the opening sentence of Vanity Fair.
While the present century was in its teens, and on one sunshiny
morning in June, there drove up to the great iron gate of Miss
Pinkerton's academy for young ladies, on Chiswick Mall, a large
family coach, with two fat horses in blazing harness, driven by a
fat coachman in a three-cornered hat and wig, at the rate of four
miles an hour.
The time when Thackeray wrote this, the late eighteen-forties,
seems almost as distant to us as the time about which he was
writing, but Thackeray was clearly aiming to evoke a mood of
humorous and perhaps slightly condescending nostalgia. For him
and his readers the Railway Age had intervened between the teens
and the forties of the century, and the reference to the slow speed
of the coach draws attention to the more leisurely pace of life in
the earlier period. The description of the coachman's hat and wig
would also have been more precisely coded indicators of period for
the original readers than for us.
The recent past has remained a favourite subject for novelists
up to the present day. Fay Weldon's Female Friends is one of
countless examples. But there is a great difference between doing
that, and writing about life in a previous century, especially when
that life has already been memorably described by its own contem-
A SENSE OF THE PAST
poraries. How can a novelist of the late twentieth century compete
with Charles Dickens, or Thomas Hardy, in the representation of
nineteenth-century men and women? The answer, of course, is
that he can't. What he can do is bring a twentieth-century
perspective to bear upon nineteenth-century behaviour, perhaps
revealing things about the Victorians that they did not know
themselves, or preferred to suppress, or simply took for granted.
If we encountered the first paragraph of the extract from The
French Lieutenant's Woman out of context, we should be hard put to
say when it was written. This is because it focuses on "timeless"
properties of the novel's seaside setting, Lyme Regis (the fishermen, their nets and lobster-pots, the strollers by the sea), and
because it is written according to the conventions of a kind of
fictional realism that has been going strong for the last two hundred
years. The description of the scene from Charles's point of view,
as he sets out on a fossil-hunting expedition, deftly recapitulates
the main question of narrative interest in the novel so far - the
identity of the mysterious woman he encountered on the Cobb in
stormier weather. Only the slightly archaic use of the word "elastic"
would suggest that this is either a Victorian novel or a modern
imitation of one.
The second paragraph, however, makes overt the author's, and
the reader's, temporal distance from the action of the novel, which
takes place in 1867, exactly one hundred years before Fowles was
writing it. Clothes are prime indicators of period in fiction
(especially in popular forms, witness the terms "costume drama"
and "bodice-ripper"), and information about the kind of clothing
people wore in the past can be recuperated by historical research,
such as Fowles has obviously carried out. But what Charles's
clothes, and supplementary equipment, would have signified to
himself and his contemporaries (namely that he was a gentleman,
who knew the correct way to do things) is different from what they
signify to us: their excessiveness, inconvenience and unsuitability
to the activity for which they were employed, and what that reveals
about Victorian values.
The shift in perspective between the two paragraphs, from the
imaginative recreation of the past in the first, to the open acknowl132
A SENSE OF THE PAST
edgment of separation from it in the second, is characteristic of
Fowles's method in this novel. The passage I have quoted continues: "Well, we laugh. But perhaps there is something admirable
in this dissociation between what is most comfortable and what is
most recommended. We meet here, once again, this bone of
contention between the two centuries: is duty to drive us or not?"
The word "duty" has an asterisk against it, directing our attention
to a footnote, quoting a genuine Victorian novelist, George Eliot,
on the subject of duty. The most striking reminder that Fowles is
a twentieth-century novelist writing a nineteenth-century novel
comes when Charles finally consummates his desire for the
mysterious Sarah, and his state of mind is described, with deliberate anachronism, as "like a city struck out of a quiet sky by an atom
bomb." But exposing the gap between the date of the story and the
date of its composition inevitably reveals not just the artificiality of
historical fiction, but the artificiality of all fiction. It is not long
before Fowles is writing: "This story I am telling is all imagination.
These characters I create never existed outside my own mind."
The French Lieutenant's Woman is a novel as much about novelwriting as about the past. There is a word for this kind of fiction,
"Metafiction" - which will be discussed in due course (see Section
45)-
133
29 Imagining the Future
It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking
thirteen. Winston Smith, his chin nuzzled into his breast in an
effort to escape the vile wind, slipped quickly through the glass
doors of Victory Mansions, though not quickly enough to
prevent a swirl of gritty dust from entering along with him.
The hallway smelt of boiled cabbage and old rag mats. At one
end of it a coloured poster, too large for indoor display, had
been tacked to the wall. It depicted simply an enormous face,
more than a metre wide: the face of a man of about forty-five,
with a heavy black moustache and ruggedly handsome features.
Winston made for the stairs. It was no use trying the lift. Even
at the best of times it was seldom working, and at present the
electric current was cut off during daylight hours. It was part of
the economy drive in preparation for Hate Week. The flat was
seven flights up, and Winston, who was thirty-nine and had a
varicose ulcer above his right ankle, went slowly, resting several
times on the way. On each landing, opposite the lift-shaft, the
poster with the enormous face gazed from the wall. It was one
of those pictures which are so contrived that the eyes follow you
about when you move, BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING YOU, the
caption beneath it ran.
Inside the flat a fruity voice was reading out a list of figures
which had something to do with the production of pig-iron. The
voice came from an oblong metal plaque like a dulled mirror
which formed part of the surface of the right-hand wall.
Winston turned a switch and the voice sank somewhat, though
the words were still distinguishable. The instrument (the telescreen, it was called) could be dimmed, but there was no way of
shutting it off completely.
GEORGE ORWELL Nineteen Eighty-Four (1949)
134
IT IS ONLY SUPERFICIALLY paradoxical that most novels about the
future are narrated in the past tense. Michael Frayn's A Very
Private Life (1968) starts in the future tense ("Once upon a time
there will be a little girl called Uncumber") but he can't keep it up
for long, and soon shifts into the present tense. To enter into the
imagined world of a novel we have to orientate ourselves in space
and time with the characters, and the future tense makes that
impossible. The past tense is "natural" for narrative; even the use
of the present tense is somewhat paradoxical, since anything that
has been written down has by inference already happened.
Of course, for us, today, 1984 has already happened. But when
Orwell wrote the novel he was imagining the future, and to make
sense of it we have to read it as a prophetic, not a historical novel.
He used the narrative past tense to give his picture of the future a
novelistic illusion of reality. By setting his story only thirty-odd
years ahead he was perhaps aiming to impress his readers with the
imminence of the political tyranny he envisaged. But there is also
a grim humour in the anagrammatic mirroring of the date of the
novel's completion (1948) in its title. Orwell drew on many
recognizable features of life in "austerity" post-war Britain, as well
as on reports of life in Eastern Europe, to create the depressing
atmosphere of London in 1984: drabness, shortages, dilapidation.
Science fiction usually tells us how different the material conditions
of life will be in the future. Orwell suggested that they would be
much the same, only worse.
The first sentence of the book is justly admired. "It was a bright
cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen." The sting
is in the last word, though it is probably more powerful for readers
who remember a time when there were no digital clocks or twentyfour-hour timetables. Until you reach it, the discourse sounds
reassuringly familiar. It could be the beginning of an "ordinary"
novel about an ordinary day in the contemporary world. It's the
anomalous word "thirteen" that tells us with wonderful economy
that a very different experience is in store. Clocks, time, and the
calculations that go with them, are part of the rule of reason by
which we order our lives in the ordinary, familiar world. So
"thirteen" is like the moment in a nightmare when something tells
135
IMAGINING THE FUTURE
you you are dreaming and you wake up. But in this case the
nightmare is only beginning, and the hero, at least, never wakes up
- from a world in which power can decree that two and two make
five.
In the next sentence only the proper names seem to stand out
from the style of low-key realism. Winston Smith was obviously
named for Winston Churchill, leader of the nation in World War
II, and the mansion block he lives in would have been built shortly
after the end of that war. The irony of these details becomes
evident when we learn later in the text that the globe is embroiled
in continuous intercontinental warfare thirty-six years on. The
gritty dust that blows into the lobby suggests that the roads and
pavements outside are not well cleaned, and this note of physical
squalor and deprivation deepens in the following paragraph, with
the references to boiled cabbage, the old rag mats on the floor, the
power-cuts, and Winston's varicose ulcer.
The reference to "Hate Week", and the huge coloured poster
with the caption, "BIG BROTHER IS WATCHING YOU," are the only
unfamiliar details in what could otherwise be a description of a
run-down block of council flats in 1948. They are equivalent in
effect to the clock striking thirteen. They are enigmas, arousing
our curiosity - and apprehension, since what they imply about the
social context is not reassuring, and already we are beginning to
identify with Winston Smith as a victim of this society. Hate Week
and Big Brother are associated, by contiguity, with the physical
squalor and deprivation of the environment - even with the vile
wind in the first paragraph. The features of Big Brother resemble
Stalin's, but they also recall a famous recruiting poster of World
War I, depicting a heavily moustached military man (Lord
Kitchener) pointing a finger, with the caption, "Your Country
Needs You." Only in the two-way television screen (which keeps
the viewer under permanent observation) does Orwell use the
licence of science-fiction to imagine a gadget that did not exist in
his own time. Its technological sophistication seems all the more
sinister in the drab and poverty-stricken setting of Victory
Mansions.
Orwell, in short, imagined the future by invoking, modifying and
136
IMAGINING THE FUTURE
recombining images of what his readers, consciously or unconsciously, already knew. To some extent, this is always the case.
Popular science fiction, for instance, is a curious mixture of
invented gadgetry and archetypal narrative motifs very obviously
derived from folk tale, fairy tale and Scripture, recycling the myths
of Creation, Fall, Flood and a Divine Saviour, for a secular but
still superstitious age. Orwell himself echoes the story of Adam
and Eve in his treatment of the love affair between Winston and
Julia, secretly monitored and finally punished by Big Brother, but
with an effect that is the reverse of reassuring, and so subtly that
the reader may not be conscious of the allusion. In that respect as
in others his technique is indistinguishable from that of the
traditional realist novel, though his purpose was different: not to
reflect contemporary social reality, but to paint a daunting picture
of a possible future.
137
30 Symbolism
"The fool!" cried Ursula loudly. "Why doesn't he ride away till
it's gone by?"
Gudrun was looking at him with black-dilated, spellbound
eyes. But he sat glistening and obstinate, forcing the wheeling
mare, which spun and swerved like a wind, and yet could not
get out of the grasp of his will, nor escape from the mad clamour
of terror that resounded through her, as the trucks thumped
slowly, heavily, horrifying, one after the other, one pursuing the
other, over the rails of the crossing.
The locomotive, as if wanting to see what could be done, put
on the brakes, and back came the trucks rebounding on the iron
buffers, striking like horrible cymbals, clashing nearer and
nearer in frightful strident concussions. The mare opened her
mouth and rose slowly, as if lifted up on a wind of terror. Then
suddenly her fore-feet struck out, as she convulsed herself
utterly away from the horror. Back she went, and the two girls
clung to each other, feeling she must fall backwards on top of
him. But he leaned forward, his face shining with fixed amusement, and at last he brought her down, sank her down, and was
bearing her back to the mark. But as strong as the pressure of
his compulsion was the repulsion of her utter terror, throwing
her back away from the railway, so that she spun round and
round on two legs, as if she were in the centre of some
whirlwind. It made Gudrun faint with poignant dizziness, which
seemed to penetrate to her heart.
D. H. LAWRENCE Women in Love (1921)
138
ROUGHLY SPEAKING, anything that "stands for" something else is a
symbol, but the process operates in many different ways. A cross
may symbolize Christianity in one context, by association with the
Crucifixion, and a road intersection in another, by diagrammatic
resemblance. Literary symbolism is less easily decoded than these
examples, because it tries to be original and tends towards a rich
plurality, even ambiguity, of meaning (all qualities that would be
undesirable in traffic signs and religious icons, especially the
former). If a metaphor or simile consists of likening A to B, a
literary symbol is a B that suggests an A, or a number of As. The
poetic style known as Symbolism, which started in France in the
late nineteenth century in the work of Baudelaire, Verlaine and
Mallarmé, and exerted considerable influence on English writing
in the twentieth, was characterized by a shimmering surface of
suggested meanings without a denotative core.
Somebody once said, however, that the novelist should make his
spade a spade before he makes it a symbol, and this would seem to
be good advice for a writer who is aiming to create anything like
the "illusion of life". If the spade is introduced all too obviously
just for the sake of its symbolic meaning, it will tend to undermine
the credibility of the narrative as human action. D. H. Lawrence
was often prepared to take that risk to express a visionary insight -
as when, in another episode of Women in Love, he has his hero
rolling naked in the grass and throwing stones at the reflection of
the moon. But in the passage quoted here he has kept a nice
balance between realistic description and symbolic suggestion.
The "spade" in this case is a complex action: a man controlling
a horse frightened by a colliery train passing at a level crossing,
while being watched by two women. The man is Gerald Critch,
the son of the local colliery owner, who manages the business and
will eventually inherit it. The setting is the Nottinghamshire
landscape in which Lawrence, a coalminer's son, was brought up:
a pleasant countryside scarred and blackened in places by the pits
and their railways. One might say that the train "symbolizes" the
mining industry, which is a product of culture in the anthropological sense, and that the horse, a creature of Nature, symbolizes
the countryside. Industry has been imposed on the countryside by
139
SYMBOLISM
the masculine power and will of capitalism, a process Gerald
symbolically re-enacts by the way he dominates his mare, forcing
the animal to accept the hideous mechanical noise of the train.
The two women in the scene are sisters, Ursula and Gudrun
Brangwen, the former a teacher, the latter an artist. They are out
on a country walk when they witness the scene at the level crossing.
Both identify sympathetically with the terrified horse. Ursula is
outraged by Gerald's behaviour, and speaks her mind. But the
scene is described from Gudrun's point of view, and her response
is more complex and ambivalent. There is sexual symbolism in the
way Gerald controls his mount - "at last he brought her down,
sank her down, and was bearing her back to the mark" - and there
is certainly an element of macho exhibitionism in his display of
strength in front of the two women. Whereas Ursula is simply
disgusted by the spectacle, Gudrun is sexually aroused by it, almost
in spite of herself. The mare "spun round and round on two legs,
as if she were in the centre of some whirlwind. It made Gudrun
faint with poignant dizziness, which seemed to penetrate to her
heart." "Poignant" is a transferred epithet, which logically belongs
to the suffering of the horse; its rather odd application to "dizziness" expresses the turmoil of Gudrun's emotions, and calls
attention to the root meaning of poignant - pricking, piercing -
which, with "penetrate" in the next clause, gives a powerfully
phallic emphasis to the whole description. A couple of pages later,
Gudrun is described as "numbed in her mind by the sense of
indomitable soft weight of the man bearing down into the living
body of the horse: the strong, indomitable thighs of the blond man
clenching the palpitating body of the mare into pure control." The
whole scene is indeed prophetic of the passionate but mutually
destructive sexual relationship that will develop later in the story
between Gudrun and Gerald.
This rich brew of symbolic suggestion would, however, be much
less effective if Lawrence did not at the same time allow us to
picture the scene in vivid, sensuous detail. The ugly noise and
motion of trucks as the train brakes is rendered in onomatopoeic
syntax and diction ("clashing nearer and nearer in frightful strident
concussions"), followed by an eloquent image of the horse, graceful
140
SYMBOLISM
even in panic: "The mare opened her mouth and rose slowly, as if
lifted up on a wind of terror." Whatever you think of Lawrence's
men and women, he was always brilliant when describing animals.
It is worth noting that symbolism is generated in two different ways
in this passage. The Nature/Culture symbolism is modelled on the
rhetorical figures of speech known as metonymy and synecdoche.
Metonymy substitutes cause for effect or vice versa (the locomotive
stands for Industry because it is an effect of the Industrial
Revolution) and synecdoche substitutes part for whole or vice versa
(the horse stands for Nature because it is part of Nature). The
sexual symbolism, on the other hand, is modelled on metaphor and
simile, in which one thing is equated with another on the basis of
some similarity between them: Gerald's domination of his mare is
described in such a way as to suggest a human sexual act. This
distinction, originally formulated by the Russian structuralist
Roman Jakobson, operates on every level of a literary text, and
indeed outside literature too, as my heroine Robyn Penrose
demonstrated to a sceptical Vic Wilcox in Nice Work, by analysing
cigarette advertisements. For more examples of how it operates in
fictional symbolism, see the passage by Graham Greene, discussed
under the heading of "The Exotic" in Section 35.
141
3i Allegory
So far, however, as I could collect anything certain, I gathered
that they have two distinct currencies, each under the control
of its own banks and mercantile codes. One of these (the one
with the Musical Banks) was supposed to be the system, and to
give out the currency in which all monetary transactions should
be carried on; and as far as I could see, all who wished to be
considered respectable, kept a larger or smaller balance at these
banks. On the other hand, if there is one thing of which I am
more sure than another, it is that the amount so kept had no
direct commercial value in the outside world; I am sure that the
managers and cashiers of the Musical Banks were not paid in
their own currency. Mr Nosnibor used to go to these banks, or
rather to the great mother bank of the city, sometimes but not
very often. He was a pillar of one of the other kinds of banks,
though he appeared to hold some minor office also in the
musical ones. The ladies generally went alone; as indeed was
the case in most families, except on state occasions.
I had long wanted to know more of this strange system, and
had the greatest desire to accompany my hostess and her
daughters. I had seen them go out almost every morning since
my arrival and had noticed that they carried their purses in
their hands, not exactly ostentatiously, yet just so as that those
who met them should see whither they were going. I had never,
however, yet been asked to go with them myself.
SAMUEL BUTLER Erewhon (1872)
142
ALLEGORY is a specialized form of symbolic narrative, which does
not merely suggest something beyond its literal meaning, but insists
on being decoded in terms of another meaning. The most famous
allegory in the English language is John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's
Progress, which allegorizes the Christian struggle to achieve salvation as a journey from the City of Destruction, through obstacles
and distractions like the Slough of Despond and Vanity Fair, to
the Celestial City. Virtues and vices are personified as people
Christian encounters on his journey, e.g.:
Now, when he was got up to the top of the hill, there came two
men running to meet him amain; the name of the one was
Timorous, and of the other, Mistrust, to whom Christian said, Sirs,
what's the matter? You run the wrong way. Timorous answered,
that they were going to the City of Zion, and had got up that
difficult place; but, said he, the further we go, the more danger
we meet with; wherefore we turned, and are going back again.
Since the development of an allegorical narrative is determined at
every point by its one-to-one correspondence to the implied
meaning, it tends to work against what Henry James called "the
sense of felt life" in the novel. Allegory therefore appears in
mainstream fiction, if at all, in interpolated narratives like dreams
(Pilgrim's Progress is itself framed as a dream) or stories told by one
character to another. Graham Greene's A Burnt-out Case, for
instance, features a bed-time story told by the hero Querry to the
childlike Marie Rycker. The story, about a successful but cynical
jeweller, is a transparent allegory of Querry's professional career
as a famous Catholic architect who has lost his religious faith; it also
has a teasing relevance to Greene's own life and literary career:
"Everyone said he was a master-technician, but he was highly
praised too for the seriousness of his subject matter because on
the top of each egg there was a gold cross set with chips of
precious stones in honour of the King."
As an extended fictional device allegory is used mainly in
didactic, satirical fables, such as Gulliver's Travels, Animal Farm
143
ALLEGORY
and Erewhon. In these masterpieces a surface realism of presentation gives the fantastic events a kind of weird plausibility, and the
game of correspondences is played with such wit and ingenuity
that it never becomes boringly predictable. The title Erewhon is
"nowhere" spelled backwards (almost). Butler thus places his book
in the tradition of Thomas More's Utopia ("No Place"), the
description of an imaginary country which has instructive resemblances to and differences from our own. A young Englishman
crosses a range of mountains in some outpost of Empire (it sounds
like New Zealand, where Butler spent several years) and stumbles
upon a previously undiscovered country. Its inhabitants have
reached approximately the same stage of development as Victorian
England, but their values and beliefs seem bizarre and perverse to
the narrator. For example, they regard illness as a crime, requiring
punishment and segregation from respectable people, and crime as
an illness, deserving of commiseration from friends and relatives,
and requiring expensive treatment by sympathetic practitioners
called "straighteners". We soon cotton on to the basic conceit -
Erewhon exhibits Victorian mores in displaced or inverted forms -
but it is important that the narrator does not. Part of the pleasure
of this kind of fiction is that our intelligence is exercised and
flattered by interpreting the allegory.
The Erewhonians do not have any religious belief, and they
attribute the narrator's observance of the Sabbath as "a fit of
sulkiness which they remarked as coming over me upon every
seventh day." What they have instead are Musical Banks, thus
called because in them "all mercantile transactions are accompanied with music .. . though the music was hideous to a European
ear." These buildings are elaborately decorated with marble cladding, sculptures, stained-glass etc. Respectable people like the
Nosnibors (Robinsons), who have befriended the narrator, go
through the motions of conducting small financial transactions at
these banks, and deplore the fact that so few people make full use
of them, though everyone knows that their currency has no real
value.
The implication that Victorian religion was largely a social ritual;
that, while nominally subscribing to the tenets of Christianity, the
144
ALLEGORY
English bourgeoisie conducted their affairs on an entirely different,
materialistic basis, is very clear. It is not for the sake of such a
rather obvious message, however, that we read and enjoy Erewhony
but for the absurdist humour and thought-provoking felicity with
which the analogies are developed. Banks, for example, especially
large, important banks, are rather like churches or cathedrals in
their architecture and décor; noting the neatness of the analogy we
are made to think about the hypocrisy and false pretensions of
financial as well as ecclesiastical institutions. And the discreetly
self-righteous comportment of the ladies on their way to the
Musical Bank, carrying their purses "not exactly ostentatiously, yet
just so as that those who met them should see whither they were
going", is much more amusing than it would be if they were
characters in a realistic novel carrying prayerbooks. Allegory is yet
another technique of defamiliarization.
145
32 Epiphany
They reach the tee, a platform of turf beside a hunchbacked
fruit tree offering fists of taut pale buds. "I better go first,"
Rabbit says. "Till you calm down." His heart is hushed, held in
mid-beat, by anger. He doesn't care about anything except
getting out of this mess. He wishes it would rain. In avoiding
looking at Eccles he looks at the ball, which sits high on the tee
and already seems free of the ground. Very simply he brings the
clubhead around his shoulder into it. The sound has a hollowness, a singleness he hasn't heard before. His arms force his
head up and his ball is hung way out, lunarly pale against the
beautiful black blue of storm clouds, his grandfather's colour
stretched dense across the east. It recedes along a line straight
as a ruler-edge. Stricken; sphere, star, speck. It hesitates, and
Rabbit thinks it will die, but he's fooled, for the ball makes this
hesitation the ground of a final leap: with a kind of visible sob
takes a last bite of space before vanishing in falling. "That's it!"
he cries and, turning to Eccles with a smile of aggrandizement,
repeats, "That's it."
JOHN UPDIKE Rabbit, Run (i960)
AN EPIPHANY is, literally, a showing. In Christian terminology it
denotes the showing of the infant Jesus to the three Magi. James
Joyce, apostate Catholic, for whom the writer's vocation was a kind
of profane priesthood, applied the word to the process by which a
commonplace event or thought is transformed into a thing of
timeless beauty by the exercise of the writer's craft: "when the soul
of the commonest object seems to us radiant," as his fictional alter
ego, Stephen Dedalus, says. The term is now loosely applied to any
146
descriptive passage in which external reality is charged with a kind
of transcendental significance for the perceiver. In modern fiction
an epiphany often has the function performed by a decisive action
in traditional narrative, providing a climax or resolution to a story
or episode. Joyce himself showed the way in this respect. Many of
the stories in Dubliners seem to end with an anticlimax - some
defeat or frustration or trivial incident - but the language makes
the anticlimax into a moment of truth for the protagonist, or the
reader, or both. \nA Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man the sight
of a young girl wading in the sea with her skirts tucked up is
elevated by the rhythms and repetitions of the style into a
transcendent vision of profane beauty that confirms the hero in his
commitment to an artistic rather than a religious vocation:
Her slateblue skirts were kilted boldly about her waist and
dovetailed behind her. Her bosom was as a bird's soft and slight,
slight and soft as the breast of some darkplumaged dove. But her
long fair hair was girlish: and girlish, and touched with the
wonder of mortal beauty, her face.
The passage quoted from the first of John Updike's Rabbit
novels describes an action in a contest, but it is the intensity of the
moment, not its consequences, that are important (we never
discover whether the hero won that particular hole). Harry
"Rabbit" Angstrom is a young man stuck in a dead-end job in
smalltown America, and stuck in a marriage that has gone erotically
and emotionally dead after the birth of the couple's first child. He
makes an ineffectual attempt to run away from his suffocating
existence, getting no further than the arms of another woman. The
local minister, Eccles, invites him to play a round of golf as a
pretext for counselling him to return to his wife. Rabbit, who
worked as a caddy in boyhood, knows the rudiments of the game,
but under the stress of the situation his first drive "sputters away
to one side, niggled by a perverse topspin that makes it fall from
flight as dumpily as a blob of clay," and his play doesn't improve as
Eccles nags at him. "Why have you left her?" "I told ya. There was
this thing that wasn't there." "What thing? Have you ever seen it?
147
EPIPHANY
Are you sure it exists? .. . Is it hard or soft? Harry. Is it blue? Is it
red? Does it have polka dots?" Badgered by Eccles' mockingly
empirical questioning, Rabbit finds his answer by hitting, at last,
the perfect drive.
In epiphanies, prose fiction comes closest to the verbal intensity
of lyric poetry (most modern lyrics are in fact nothing but
epiphanies); so epiphanic description is likely to be rich in figures
of speech and sound. Updike is a writer prodigally gifted with the
power of metaphoric speech. Even before he gets to the main
subject of this paragraph he sets the scene with an effortlessly vivid
description of the fruit tree, its "fists of taut pale buds" hinting at
both the antagonism of the moment, and the promise of release.
But the initial description of the drive is deliberately literal. "Very
simply he brings the clubhead around his shoulder into it," is like
a golf pro's description of a natural swing. "The sound has a
hollowness, a singleness he hasn't heard before." The transformation of the epithets hollow and single into abstract nouns gives them
a mysterious resonance. Then the language takes a metaphoric
turn: "his ball is hung way out, lunarly pale against the beautiful
black blue of storm clouds," and this cosmic, astronomical strain
of imagery is extended later in "sphere, star, speck." The boldest
trope is rightly reserved for the last: just as Rabbit thinks his ball is
going to die, it "makes this hesitation the ground of a final leap:
with a kind of visible sob takes a last bite of space before vanishing
in falling." The synaesthesia (mixing of senses) of "visible sob"
might seem a bit too rich to apply to a golf ball, if it didn't occupy
the climactic position in the description. When Rabbit turns to
Eccles and cries triumphantly, "That's it!" he is answering the
minister's question about what is lacking in his marriage. But there
is a suggestion of religious transcendence in the language applied
to the golf ball ("the ground of a final leap" could be a phrase from
modern existentialist theology) which comments obliquely on
Eccles's own lack of real religious faith. Perhaps in Rabbit's cry of
"That's it!" we also hear an echo of the writer's justifiable
satisfaction at having revealed, through language, the radiant soul
of a well-struck tee-shot.
148
33 Coincidence
For two very happy persons he found himself straightway taking
them - a young man in shirt sleeves, a young woman easy and
fair, who had pulled pleasantly up from some other place and,
being acquainted with the neighbourhood, had known what this
particular retreat could offer them. The air quite thickened, at
their approach, with further intimations; the intimation that
they were expert, familiar, frequent - that this wouldn't at all
events be the first time. They knew how to do it, he vaguely felt
- and it made them but the more idyllic, though at the very
moment of the impression, as happened, their boat seemed to
have begun to drift wide, the oarsman letting it go. It had by
this time none the less come much nearer - near enough for
Strether to fancy the lady in the stern had for some reason
taken account of his being there to watch them. She had
remarked on it sharply, yet her companion hadn't turned round;
it was in fact almost as if our friend had felt her bid him keep
still. She had taken in something as a result of which their
course had wavered, and it continued to waver while they just
stood off. This little effect was sudden and rapid, so rapid that
Strether's sense of it was separate only for an instant from a
sharp start of his own. He too had within the minute taken in
something, taken in that he knew the lady whose parasol,
shifting as if to hide her face, made so fine a pink point on the
shining scene. It was too prodigious, a chance in a million, but,
if he knew the lady, the gentleman, who still presented his back
and kept off, the gentleman, the coatless hero of the idyll, who
had responded to her start, was, to match the marvel, none
other than Chad.
HENRY JAMES The Ambassadors (1903)
149
THERE IS ALWAYS a trade-off in the writing of fiction between the
achievement of structure, pattern and closure on the one hand,
and the imitation of life's randomness, inconsequentiality and
openness on the other. Coincidence, which surprises us in real life
with symmetries we don't expect to find there, is all too obviously
a structural device in fiction, and an excessive reliance on it can
jeopardize the verisimilitude of a narrative. Its acceptability varies,
of course, from one period to another. Brian Inglis observes in his
book Coincidence that "Novelists .. . provide an invaluable guide to
their contemporaries' attitudes to coincidence through the ways in
which they exploit it in their books."
Lord David Cecil's witticism that Charlotte Brontë "stretched
the long arm of coincidence to the point of dislocation" could be
applied to most of the great Victorian novelists, who wrote long,
multi-stranded and heavily moralized stories involving numerous
characters drawn from different levels of society. Through coincidence, intriguing and instructive connections could be contrived
between people who would not normally have had anything to do
with each other. Often this was linked with a Nemesis theme - the
idea, dear to the Victorian heart, that wrongdoing will always be
exposed in the end. Henry James was perhaps pointing the same
moral in the coincidental meeting that forms the climax to The
Ambassadors, but in a characteristically modern way the innocent
party is as discomfited as the guilty ones.
The hero of the story, Lambert Strether, is an amiable, elderly
American bachelor who is despatched to Paris by his formidable
patroness, Mrs Newsome, to check out rumours that their son
Chad is misbehaving himself with a Frenchwoman, and to bring
him back to run the family business. Strether, enchanted with
Paris, and with the much-improved Chad and his aristocratic
friend, Mme de Vionnet, and trusting Chad's assurances that the
relationship is entirely innocent, sides with the young man in the
family struggle, at some cost to his own prospects. Then, in the
course of a solitary excursion into the French countryside, while
stopping at a riverside inn, he encounters Chad and Mme de
Vionnet, who arrive unchaperoned at the same venue by rowing
boat. For Strether the realization that they are, after all, lovers, is a
150
COINCIDENCE
bitter and humiliating disillusionment. The European culture
whose beauty, style and elegance he has so enthusiastically
embraced, turns out to be morally duplicitous, confirming the
prejudices of puritanical and philistine New England.
This dénouement is contrived by means of coincidence, "a
chance in a million," as the text itself boldly states. If it doesn't
seem contrived, in the reading, that is partly because it is virtually
the only twist in the entire plot (so that James has large reserves of
credulity to draw on), and partly because the masterly narration of
the event from Strether's point of view makes us experience it,
rather than merely receive a report of it. Strether's perceptions
have three stages, which are presented in, as it were, slow motion.
First we share his benevolent observation of the couple in the boat
on the assumption that they are strangers, whose appearance
happily completes the idyllic scene he is contemplating. He
constructs a little narrative around them, inferring from their
comportment that they are "expert, familiar, frequent" visitors
(which means that, when he identifies them as Chad and Mme de
Vionnet, he must face the unpleasant fact that they are expert,
familiar, frequent lovers, and have been deceiving him for some
time). In the second stage he perceives various puzzling changes in
the couple's behaviour: the boat drifts wide, the oarsman stops
rowing, apparently at the behest of the lady who has taken note of
Strether's presence. (Mme de Vionnet is wondering whether they
can back off without being recognized.) Then, in the third and
final stage Strether realizes that "he knew the lady whose parasol,
shifting as if to hide her face, made so fine a pink point on the
shining scene." Even now Strether's mind still clings to his
aesthetic idyll; just as, in registering the presence of Chad, he tries
to conceal his own dismay from himself by a hollow impersonation
of pleased surprise. Having rendered the encounter so vividly,
James can risk in the next paragraph terming it "as queer as fiction,
as farce."
The frequency of coincidence in fictional plots varies with genre
as well as period, and is related to how much the writer feels he
can "get away with" in this respect. To cite my own experience, I
COINCIDENCE
felt much less inhibited about exploiting coincidence in Small
World (the very title of which foregrounds the phenomenon) than
in, say, Nice Work. Small World is a comic novel, and audiences of
comedy will accept an improbable coincidence for the sake of the
fun it generates. In associating coincidence with "farce", James
was no doubt thinking of French boulevard comedies at the turn
of the century, by writers like Georges Feydeau, which all turn on
sexually compromising situations, and Small World belongs to this
tradition. It is also a novel that consciously imitates the interlacing
plots of chivalric romances, so there is an intertextual justification,
too, for the multiplicity of coincidences in the story. One of the
more outrageous examples in the story centres on Cheryl Summerbee, an airline employee at Heathrow airport who serves an
improbable number of the novel's characters in the course of the
book. At a late stage in the pursuit of the heroine, Angelica, by the
hero, Persse McGarrigle, the former leaves the latter a message on
the petition board of the chapel at Heathrow, coded as a reference
to a stanza in Spenser's Faerie Queene. Having tried the Heathrow
bookstalls in vain for a paperback edition of this work, Persse is
just about to travel back to London when Cheryl, who is in charge
of an Information desk, produces the very thing from under her
counter. It transpires that she has substituted this for her usual
reading of cheap romances as a result of having received a lecture
on the nature of authentic literary romance from the relentlessly
pedagogic Angelica, whom she recently checked in for a flight to
Geneva. Thus Persse obtains both the means of decoding the
message and information of Angelica's whereabouts. This is all
highly implausible, but it seemed to me that by this stage of the
novel it was almost a case of the more coincidences the merrier,
providing they did not defy common sense, and the idea of
someone wanting information about a classic Renaissance poem
getting it from an airline Information desk was so piquant that the
audience would be ready to suspend their disbelief.
Nice Work has its comic and intertextual elements, but it is a
more serious, realistic novel, and I was conscious that coincidence
must be used more sparingly as a plot device, and more carefully
disguised or justified. Whether I succeeded is not for me to say,
152
COINCIDENCE
but I will give an example of what I mean. In Part Four of the
novel, the hero Vic Wilcox is addressing a meeting of his workers
when he is interrupted by a Kissogram, delivered by a girl dressed
in sexy underwear, who sings a derisive message to him. This is a
practical joke perpetrated by Vic's disaffected Sales Director. The
meeting is about to collapse when the heroine Robyn Penrose
comes to the rescue. The girl immediately obeys Robyn's command
that she should leave because she is one of Robyn's students,
Marion Russell. This is obviously a coincidence. If it works in
narrative terms it is because certain clues have been planted earlier
in the text which hinted that Marion might be doing this kind of
job - not so obviously that the reader would guess that the
Kissogram girl was Marion as soon as she appeared, but clearly
enough in retrospect. Thus scepticism about a coincidence is, I
hope, deflected by satisfactorily solving an enigma (what is Marion's part-time job?) and also by putting emphasis on Robyn's
successful intervention rather than on her perception of the
coincidence.
153
34 The Unreliable Narrator
"It is from Mrs Johnson, a companion of my aunt. She says my
aunt died the day before yesterday." She paused a moment,
then said: "The funeral is to take place tomorrow. I wonder if it
might be possible for me to take the day off."
"I am sure that could be arranged, Miss Kenton."
"Thank you, Mr Stevens. Forgive me, but perhaps I may now
have a few moments alone."
"Of course, Miss Kenton."
I made my exit, and it was not until after I had done so that it
occurred to me I had not actually offered her my condolences. I
could well imagine the blow the news would be to her, her aunt
having been, to all intents and purposes, like a mother to her,
and I paused out in the corridor, wondering if I should go back,
knock and make good my omission. But then it occurred to me
that if I were to do so, I might easily intrude upon her private
grief. Indeed, it was not impossible that Miss Kenton, at that
very moment, and only a few feet from me, was actually crying.
The thought provoked a strange feeling to rise within me,
causing me to stand there hovering in the corridor for some
moments. But eventually I judged it best to await another
opportunity to express my sympathy and went on my way.
KAZUO ISHIGURO The Remains of the Day (1989)
UNRELIABLE NARRATORS are invariably invented characters who
are part of the stories they tell. An unreliable "omniscient" narrator
is almost a contradiction in terms, and could only occur in a very
deviant, experimental text. Even a character-narrator cannot be a
hundred per cent unreliable. If everything he or she says is palpably
154
false, that only tells us what we know already, namely that a novel
is a work of fiction. There must be some possibility of discriminating between truth and falsehood within the imagined world of the
novel, as there is in the real world, for the story to engage our
interest.
The point of using an unreliable narrator is indeed to reveal in
an interesting way the gap between appearance and reality, and to
show how human beings distort or conceal the latter. This need
not be a conscious, or mischievous, intention on their part. The
narrator of Kazuo Ishiguro's novel is not an evil man, but his life
has been based on the suppression and evasion of the truth, about
himself and about others. His narrative is a kind of confession, but
it is riddled with devious self-justification and special pleading,
and only at the very end does he arrive at an understanding of
himself- too late to profit by it.
The frame-story is set in 1956. The narrator is Stevens, the
ageing butler of an English stately home, once the seat of Lord
Darlington, now the property of a rich American. Encouraged by
his new employer, Stevens takes a short holiday in the West
Country. His private motive is to make contact with Miss Kenton,
housekeeper at Darlington Hall in its great days between the Wars,
when Lord Darlington hosted unofficial gatherings of high-ranking
politicians to discuss the crisis in Europe. Stevens hopes to
persuade Miss Kenton (he continues to refer to her thus, though
she is married) to come out of retirement and help solve a staffing
crisis at Darlington Hall. As he travels, he recalls the past.
Stevens speaks, or writes, in a fussily precise, stiffly formal style
- butlerspeak, in a word. Viewed objectively, the style has no
literary merit whatsoever. It is completely lacking in wit, sensuousness and originality. Its effectiveness as a medium for this novel
resides precisely in our growing perception of its inadequacy for
what it describes. Gradually we infer that Lord Darlington was a
bungling amateur diplomat who believed in appeasing Hitler and
gave support to fascism and antisemitism. Stevens has never
admitted to himself or to others that his employer was totally
discredited by subsequent historical events, and takes pride in the
impeccable service he rendered his weak and unamiable master.
155
THE UNRELIABLE NARRATOR
The same mystique of the perfect servant rendered him
incapable of recognizing and responding to the love that Miss
Kenton was ready to offer him when they worked together. But a
dim, heavily censored memory of his treatment of her gradually
surfaces in the course of his narrative - and we realize that his real
motive for seeking her out again is a vain hope of undoing the past.
Stevens repeatedly gives a favourable account of himself which
turns out to be flawed or deceptive. Having delivered to Miss
Kenton a letter reporting the death of her aunt, he realizes that he
has not "actually" offered his condolences. His hesitation about
whether to return almost distracts us from his extraordinarily crass
omission of any expression of regret in the preceding dialogue. His
anxiety not to intrude on her grief seems to bespeak a sensitive
personality, but in fact as soon as he finds another "opportunity to
express my sympathy", he does no such thing, but instead rather
spitefully criticises her supervision of two new maidservants.
Typically, he has no word more expressive than "strange" for the
feeling he experiences at the thought that Miss Kenton might be
crying on the other side of the door. We may be surprised that he
should suspect her of doing so, just after noting with approval her
calm reception of the news. In fact many pages later he admits that
he has attached this memory to the wrong episode:
I am not at all certain now as to the actual circumstances which
had led me to be standing thus in the back corridor. It occurs to
me that elsewhere in attempting to gather such recollections, I
may well have asserted that this memory derived from the
minutes immediately after Miss Kenton's receiving news of her
aunt's death .. . But now, having thought further, I believe I may
have been a little confused about this matter; that in fact this
fragment of memory derives from events that took place on an
evening at least a few months after the death of Miss Kenton's
aunt...
It was an evening, in fact, when he humiliated her by coldly
rejecting her timid but unambiguous offer of love - that was why
she was crying behind the closed door. But Stevens characteristically associates the occasion not with this private, intimate episode,
156
THE UNRELIABLE NARRATOR
but with one of Lord Darlington's most momentous conferences.
The themes of political bad faith and emotional sterility are subtly
interwoven in the sad story of Stevens's wasted life.
It is interesting to compare and contrast Ishiguro's novel with
another virtuoso feat in the use of an unreliable narrator - Vladimir
Nabokov's Pale Fire. This novel takes the unusual form of a long
poem by a fictitious American poet called John Shade, with a
detailed commentary upon it by an émigré European scholar,
Shade's neighbour, called Charles Kinbote. The poem is an
autobiographical work centering on the tragic suicide of the poet's
daughter. Shade himself, we gather, had just been murdered when
the manuscript of the poem came into Kinbote's hands. We soon
realize that Kinbote is mad, believing himself to be the exiled king
of some Ruritanian country resembling pre-Revolutionary Russia.
He has convinced himself that Shade was writing a poem about his
own history, and that he was shot in error by an assassin sent to
murder Kinbote himself. The purpose of his commentary is to
establish Kinbote's bizarre interpretation of the facts. One of the
pleasures of reading it is to discern, by reference to the "reliable"
narrative of Shade's poem, the degree of Kinbote's self-delusion.
Compared with The Remains of the Day, Pale Fire is exuberantly
comic at the expense of the unreliable narrator. Yet the effect is
not totally reductive. Kinbote's evocation of his beloved kingdom,
Zembla, is vivid, enchanting and haunting. Nabokov has invested
his character with some of his own eloquence, and much of his
own exile's poignant nostalgia. Ishiguro's novel in contrast accepts
the limitations of a narrator quite without eloquence. If he had
been reliable, the effect would, of course, have been incredibly
boring.
157
35 The Exotic
Wilson sat on the balcony of the Bedford Hotel with his bald
pink knees thrust against the ironwork. It was Sunday and the
Cathedral bell clanged for matins. On the other side of Bond
Street, in the windows of the High School, sat the young
négresses in dark blue gym smocks engaged on the interminable
task of trying to wave their wirespring hair. Wilson stroked his
very young moustache and dreamed, waiting for his gin-andbitters.
Sitting there, facing Bond Street, he had his face turned to
the sea. His pallor showed how recently he had emerged from
it into the port: so did his lack of interest in the schoolgirls
opposite. He was like the lagging finger of the barometer, still
pointing to Fair long after its companion had moved to Stormy.
Below him the black clerks moved churchward, but their wives
in brilliant afternoon dresses of blue and cerise aroused no
interest in Wilson. He was alone on the balcony except for one
bearded Indian in a turban who had already tried to tell his
fortune: this was not the hour or the day for white men - they
would be at the beach five miles away, but Wilson had no car.
He felt almost intolerably lonely. On either side of the school
the tin roofs sloped toward the sea, and the corrugated iron
above his head clanged and clattered as a vulture alighted.
GRAHAM GREENE The Heart of the Matter (1948)
IMPERIALISM and its aftermath set off an extraordinary wave of
travel, exploration and migration around the globe, in which
writers, or potential writers, were inevitably caught up. One
consequence was that many novels of the last hundred and fifty
years, especially British novels, have had exotic settings. By
"exotic" I mean foreign, but not necessarily glamorous or alluring.
Indeed Graham Greene specialized in unprepossessing or, to use
his own favourite epithet, "seedy" foreign locations for his novels.
It has been said that they are all set in a country of the mind called
Greeneland. They certainly have an atmospheric family resemblance (vultures, for instance, are more likely to inhabit his skies
than doves or even sparrows) but the term does an injustice to the
specificity of his settings.
The exotic in fiction is the mediation of an "abroad" to an
audience assumed to be located at "home". Joseph Conrad, whose
work is inextricably connected with the Age of Imperialism (he was
a Polish émigré who joined the British Merchant Navy, and
observed the workings of the British Empire, and its rivals, in many
far-flung corners of the globe) understood this very well. At the
beginning of Heart of Darkness, his classic study of the appalling
effects of the Belgian colonization of the African Congo, both on
the indigenous inhabitants, and on the Europeans who carried it
out, Conrad frames his story by having the narrator, Marlow, tell it
to a group of companions on a yawl moored in the Thames estuary.
" 'And this also,' said Marlow suddenly, 'has been one of the dark
places of the earth.'" Marlow goes on to imagine how the banks of
the Thames would have looked to a Roman trireme two millennia
before -" * Sand-banks, marshes, forests, savages, - precious little
to eat fit for a civilized man .. . Here and there a military camp
lost in a wilderness, like a needle in a bundle of hay - cold, fog,
tempests, disease, exile and death, - death skulking in the air, in
the water, in the bush.' " It's a neat reversal of the main story, in
which an Englishman goes out from a busy, modern, "progressive"
Europe to face the dangers and deprivations of darkest Africa, and
it prepares us for the novella's radical questioning of the stereotypes of "savage" and "civilized" in the tale of Marlow's journey
up the Congo.
Graham Greene often recorded his great admiration for Conrad,
and confessed that he had to give up reading him for fear of being
unduly influenced by the earlier writer's style. Whether the title of
The Heart of the Matter, a novel that derived from Greene's war159
THE EXOTIC
time service for MI6 in Sierra Leone, contains an allusion, or nod
of homage, to Conrad's African tale, I do not know; but Greene's
opening, like Conrad's, is particularly artful in the way it manipulates, juxtaposes and counterpoints signifiers of home and abroad.
Wilson, newly arrived from England, is a minor character used
specifically for the purpose of introducing the reader to the exotic
setting. (Once this is achieved, the point of view of the narrative
shifts to the hero, Scobie, a long-resident police officer.) Slyly,
Greene abstains from telling us immediately where we are (Freetown) but makes us infer it, complicating the task by scattering
some confusing clues. The Bedford Hotel, the Cathedral bell
clanging for matins, Bond Street and the High School, all sound
like features of an English city. In the first paragraph only the
references to Wilson's exposed knees (implying that he is wearing
shorts) and the young négresses suggest that the setting is probably
tropical Africa. This double-take effect neatly encapsulates colonialism's tendency to impose its own culture on the indigenous one
- partly as an instrument of ideological domination, and partly as a
way of mitigating its own "home-sickness". There is irony and
pathos too in the readiness with which the colonized collaborate in
this process - the African girls in British-style gym-slips vainly
trying to wave their hair, the black clerks and their wives dutifully
attending the Anglican service. We tend to think of The Heart of the
Matter as primarily a novel about the moral consequences of
religious belief, but it is almost as importantly a novel about
colonialism.
As I said earlier (in Section 14) description in fiction is
necessarily selective, depending heavily on the rhetorical device of
synecdoche, in which the part stands for the whole. Wilson is
evoked for us by his knees, his pallor and his moustache, the young
African girls by their gym smocks and wirespring hair, the Bedford
Hotel by its ironwork balcony and corrugated-iron roof, and so on.
These details of the scene constitute a minute proportion of all
those that might have been noted. There is only one overtly
metaphorical expression: the simile of the barometer, which
actually seems a little strained, punning on "Fair" to maintain the
antithesis between white and black that runs through the passage.
160
THE EXOTIC
But some of the epithets applied to the literal details of the scene
generate quasi-metaphorical connotations and cross-references.
"Bald" (normally applied only to the head) emphasizes the hairlessness of Wilson's knees, and "young" (normally applied to the
whole person) the feebleness of his moustache, contrasting with
the luxuriance of the African girls' hair. There is equivalence as
well as difference here. The way Wilson thrusts his knees against
the ironwork symbolizes the repressiveness of his British publicschool-and-civil-service mentality, still pristine, as his lack of
sexual interest (twice noted) in the African women indicates. The
girls' efforts to subdue their tightly curled hair is a still more
obvious symbol of the natural subordinated to the cultural. The
use of hair as an ethnic marker continues in the next paragraph
with the bearded and turbaned Indian.
Although the scene is described from Wilson's position in space
and time, it is not narrated from his subjective point of view, until
we reach the sentence, "He felt almost intolerably lonely." Before
that, Wilson is himself one of the objects in the scene, which is
described by an omniscient but impersonal narrator, who knows
things Wilson does not know, and sees things Wilson does not
notice, and draws ironic connections between them that Wilson,
waiting for his gin-and-bitters, dreaming (no doubt of home), is
incapable of appreciating.
161
36 Chapters etc.
CHAPTER TWO
I grow up - Am hated by my relations - Sent to School -
Neglected by my Grandfather - Maltreated by my Master -
Seasoned to Adversity - 1 form Cabals against the Pedant - Am
debarred access to my Grandfather - Hunted by his Heir - I
demolish the Teeth of his Tutor.
TOBIAS SMOLLETT The Adventures of
Roderick Random (1748)
CHAPTER X
Is it not a shame to make two chapters of what passed in going
down one pair of stairs? for we are got no farther yet than to the
first landing, and there are fifteen more steps down to the
bottom; and for aught I know, as my father and my uncle Toby
are in a talking humour, there may be as many chapters as
steps: - let that be as it will, Sir, I can no more help it than my
destiny - A sudden impulse comes across me - drop the curtain,
Shandy - 1 drop it - Strike a Une here across the paper, Tristram
- 1 strike it - and hey for a new chapter.
The deuce of any other rule have I to govern myself by in this
affair - and if I had one - as I do all things out of all rule - I
would twist it and tear it to pieces, and throw it into the fire
when I had done - Am I warm? I am, and the cause demands it
- a pretty story! is a man to follow rules - or rules to follow
him?
LAURENCE STERNE The Life and Opinions of
Tristram Shandy, Gent. (1759-67)
162
CHAPTER VIII
Arthur's Seat shall be my bed,
The sheets shall ne'er be press'd by me;
St Anton's well shall be my drink,
Sin' my true-love's forsaken me.
Old Song
SIR WALTER SCOTT The Heart of Midlothian (1818)
CHAPTER I
Since I can do no good because a woman,
Reach constantly at something that is near it.
The Maid's Tragedy: BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER
GEORGE ELIOT Middlemarch (1871-2)
. . . She had a right to happiness. Frank would take her in his
arms, fold her in his arms. He would save her.
#
She stood among the swaying crowd in the station at the North
Wall. He held her hand and she knew that he was speaking to
her, saying something about the passage over and over again.
JAMES JOYCE "Eveline" (1914)
WE TEND to take the division of novels into chapters for granted,
as if it were as natural and inevitable as the division of the discourse
into sentences and paragraphs. But of course it is not. The novels
of Daniel Defoe, for instance, among the earliest English examples
of the form, are continuous, uninterrupted streams of discourse.
As usual with Defoe, it is hard to know whether this is a symptom
of his own lack of literary sophistication, or a cunning imitation of
naive, unprofessional narrators, pouring out their life-histories
onto the page without a preconceived plan or structure. Whatever
163
CHAPTERS ETC.
the reason, it makes for a somewhat tiring reading experience, and
a rather confused impression of the story being told (it is hard, for
instance, to keep track of Moll Flanders's many journeys, partners
and children, and difficult to refer back in the text to check up on
them).
Breaking up a long text into smaller units has several possible
effects. It gives the narrative, and the reader, time to take breath,
as it were, in the intervening pauses. For this reason chapter breaks
are useful for marking transitions between different times or places
in the action. I have already noted, earlier, how Thackeray uses
the concluding line of a chapter like the curtain line of a play, to
heighten an effect of surprise and suspense (see Section 15). E.
M. Forster does something very similar in the passage quoted from
Howards End (see Section 2). Beginning a new chapter can also
have a useful expressive or rhetorical effect, especially if it has a
textual heading, in the form of a title, quotation or summary of
contents. Smollett's chapter-headings, for instance, are like film
trailers, enticing the reader with the promise of exciting action. In
a sense they "give away" the development of the story in advance,
but not in sufficient detail to kill our interest in it. These chapterheadings certainly convey the flavour of his fiction - racy, fastmoving and violent.
It is generally true to say that the more realistic a novelist is
trying to be, the less likely he or she is to draw attention to this
aspect of a novel's textual organization. Conversely, it is flaunted
by self-consciously literary novelists. The very mention of the word
"chapter" draws attention to the novel's compositional processes.
We have already seen how Laurence Sterne uses such a reference
to bring the idea of a narratee into play, having Tristram reproach
his lady reader for being "so inattentive in reading the last chapter"
(see Section 17). The quotation above is from Volume IV of
Tristram Shandy, where the narrator is describing a conversation
between his father and his Uncle Toby that took place on the day
of his birth. In a more conventional novel, such a dialogue would
not be broken up by chapter divisions, but Sterne typically makes
the loquacity of his characters an excuse for defying the normal
"rules" of composition, and starts a new chapter just because he
164
CHAPTERS ETC.
feels like it. In fact this turns out to be "my chapter upon chapters,
which I promised to write before I went to sleep." He summarizes
the received wisdom on the subject, "that chapters relieve the mind
- that they assist - or impose upon the imagination - and that in a
work of this dramatic cast they are as necessary as the shifting of
scenes," only to dismiss these statements as "cold conceits". He
recommends the reader to study Longinus. "If you are not a jot
the wiser by reading him the first time over - never fear - read
him again." Like so much of Tristram Shandy, the chapter on
chapters is an elaborate but instructive spoof.
Sir Walter Scott started a vogue for using quotations as epigraphs for chapters - a kind of overt intertextuality. Usually these
quotations were culled from old ballads, of which he was a keen
collector. They have several functions. One is thematic. The lines
from "Old Song" at the head of Chapter VIII of The Heart of
Midlothian, for instance, are relevant to one of the main components of the plot: Effie Deans, sister to the heroine Jeannie Deans,
is accused of murdering the child she bore out of wedlock. The
verse from "Old Song" connects her plight to the long narrative
tradition of young women seduced and deserted by their lovers.
The reference to "Arthur's Seat" (a hill overlooking Edinburgh)
and St Anton's well ties this motif to a particular regional setting,
the evocation of which was one of Scott's principal preoccupations,
and a major source of his appeal to contemporary readers. The
cumulative effect of these quotations from old songs and ballads is to
establish the credentials of the authorial narrator as a well-informed
and reliable guide to Scottish history, culture and topography.
It was a practice much imitated in the nineteenth century, by for
instance George Eliot. Her epigraphs, however, tend to come from
established, though often minor, literary figures like the Elizabethan playwrights Beaumont and Fletcher, from whom she quotes
a couple of lines before introducing Dorothea Brooke in Middlemarch. The quotation highlights the frustration of Dorothea's
idealism by her gender. It also reinforces the impression George
Eliot wanted to give of a bookish, learned author who was the
intellectual equal of any man.
When George Eliot quotes anonymous verses they are usually of
165
CHAPTERS ETC.
her own composition. Kipling carried this practice of composing
apocryphal sources for epigraphs to an extreme. "Mrs Bathurst",
which I discussed earlier (see Section 7) is prefaced by a long
extract from an "old play", written by Kipling himself in a pastiche
of seventeenth-century dramatic prose, describing the death of a
groom or clown at some royal court. Though fiendishly difficult to
construe, it contains important clues to the meaning of the story.
"She that damned him to death knew not that she did it, or would
have died ere she had done it. For she loved him," seems, for
instance, to rule out theories that the second corpse found beside
Vickery's was that of Mrs Bathurst.
"Mrs Bathurst" doesn't have any chapters, of course. Short
stories rarely do; though they sometimes have pauses or breaks in
the text marked by a line space. James Joyce's "Eveline", for
instance, consists mainly of a description of the principal character's thoughts as she sits at the window of her home, just before a
planned elopement with her sailor lover. Then there is a break in
the text marked by an asterisk, and the next section begins: "She
stood among the swaying crowd in the station at the North Wall."
The break in the text moves the action from the home to its climax
on the dockside without describing how Eveline got there, which
would be irrelevant to the story.
There are many different ways of dividing up a fictional text and
of marking the divisions: "Books" or "Parts", numbered chapters,
numbered or unnumbered sub-sections. Some authors have
obviously given a great deal of thought to this matter, and taken
pains to achieve a certain symmetry of form. Henry Fielding's Tom
Jones, for example, has a hundred and ninety-eight Chapters,
divided into eighteen Books, the first six of which are set in the
country, the second six on the road, and the final six in London.
The methods of publication and circulation of fiction at any given
time affected this aspect of the novel. Throughout most of the
nineteenth century, for instance, novels were commonly published
in three volumes, mostly to suit the convenience of the circulating
libraries, who were able to lend out one novel to three readers at
once, but the practice may also have encouraged authors to see
their novels in terms of a kind of three-act structure (it is possible
166
CHAPTERS ETC.
to break down the action of Jane Austen's Emma in this way, for
instance). Many Victorian novels were originally published in part
or serial form, either as independent soft-cover publications or in
magazines, and this too affected the shape of the eventual novel.
The chapters of the novels Dickens wrote for weekly serial
publication, like Hard Times and Great Expectations, are much
shorter than those in novels like Dombey and Son or Bleak House,
originally published in monthly parts. The magazine instalments
often had also to meet a very precise and uniform lengthrequirement.
There would seem to be two dimensions to this topic: one is the
purely spatial distribution and division of the text into smaller
units. This is often a clue to the structure or architecture of the
narrative as a whole, and it has some effect on the tempo of the
reading experience. Insofar as it manifests a degree of symmetry it
corresponds to stanzaic form in poetry. The other dimension is
semantic: the addition of levels of meaning, implication, suggestion,
through chapter headings, epigraphs and so on. Reviewing my own
practice in this respect, I find considerable variation, according to
the nature of the novel in question. I had forgotten, until I looked
at it for this purpose, that my first novel, The Picturegoers, has no
chapters. It is divided into three numbered Parts, each of which is
concerned with the events of one weekend. Within each Part there
are sections marked only by double line spaces or, more emphatically, asterisks, between them. I presume that this form was
suggested by the nature of the narrative, which shifts frequently
from scene to scene and from character to character situated in
different places at the same time. The spaces between the sections
function in fact like cinematic "cuts". My first novel to have
numbered chapters was The British Museum is Falling Down, a
comic and self-consciously literary novel containing a good deal of
parody. Each chapter is headed by a (hopefully) amusing quotation
from some printed source about the British Museum Reading
Room, both imitating and mocking the procedures of literary
scholarship. Changing Places is divided into numbered parts entitled
"Flying", "Settling", "Corresponding", "Reading", "Changing"
167
CHAPTERS ETC.
and "Ending"; and How Far Can You Go? is similarly divided into
chapters, each of which begins with the word "How" - "How It
Was", "How They Lost Their Virginities", "How They Lost the
Fear of Hell" and so on. The verbal echoes were designed, I would
say, to introduce an element of "symmetry" into the semantic level
of chapter-headings, and perhaps to compensate for the fact that
the chapters are very unequal in length. Symmetry, I believe,
matters more to writers of fiction than readers consciously perceive.
168
37 The Telephone
He went to the telephone in the lobby outside. "Darling," he
said.
"Is that Mr Last? I've got a message here, from Lady Brenda."
"Right, put me through to her."
"She can't speak herself, but she asked me to give you this
message, that she's very sorry but she cannot join you tonight.
She's very tired and has gone home to bed."
"Tell her I want to speak to her."
"I can't, I'm afraid, she's gone to bed. She's very tired."
"She's very tired and she's gone to bed?"
"That's right."
"Well, I want to speak to her."
"Good night," said the voice.
"The old boy's plastered," said Beaver as he rang off.
"Oh dear. I feel rather awful about him. But what can he
expect, coming up suddenly like this? He's got to be taught not
to make surprise visits."
"Is he often like that?"
"No, it's quite new."
The telephone bell rang. "D'you suppose that's him again? I'd
better answer it."
"I want to speak to Lady Brenda Last."
"Tony, darling, this is me, Brenda."
"Some damn fool said I couldn't speak to you."
"I left a message from where I was dining. Are you having a
lovely evening?"
EVELYN WAUGH A Handful of Dust (1934)
169
T HE TELEPHONE is so familiar and ubiquitous a feature of modern
life that we easily forget how unnatural it would have seemed, to
previous ages, to speak and listen without being able to see or
touch. In normal conversation, when the interlocutors are physically present to each other, they can add all kinds of meanings and
nuances to their words by facial expression and body-language, or
indeed communicate by such non-verbal means alone (a shrug, a
squeeze of the hand, a lift of the eyebrow). Until the recent
invention of the videophone (which is still in a very early stage of
development) these channels of communication have not been
available to the telephone user. By the same token, the "blindness"
of telephonic communication lends itself to deception, and easily
generates confusion, misunderstanding and alienation between the
participants. It is therefore an instrument full of narrative potential.
Evelyn Waugh belonged to a generation of novelists - Henry
Green, Christopher Isherwood and Ivy Compton-Burnett are other
names that come to mind - who were particularly interested in the
expressive possibilities of dialogue in fiction. Their work tends
towards the effect I called "staying on the surface" (see Section
25): the characters revealing, or betraying, or condemning themselves by what they say, while the narrator maintains a dry
detachment, abstaining from moral comment or psychological
analysis. It is not surprising therefore that Evelyn Waugh was one
of the first English novelists to recognize the importance of the
telephone in modern social life, and its potential for comic and
dramatic effect. It figures prominently in his second novel, Vile
Bodies (1930), one chapter of which consists entirely of two
telephone conversations between the hero and heroine, presented
without comment and even without speech tags, in the course of
which their engagement is broken off and the heroine announces
her re-engagement to the hero's best friend. The language used is
banal and formulaic - they keep saying "Well?" and "I see," when
in fact nothing is well, and the one thing they can't do is see each
other - and the effect is both funny and sad. The same is true of
this passage from A Handful of Dust.
Brenda Last, bored with her husband Tony and life in his
hideous stately home, starts an affair with the worthless and
170
THE TELEPHONE
penniless young man-about-town, John Beaver, pretending that
she needs to stay frequently in London to pursue a course in
economics. One day Tony turns up in town unexpectedly, and
finds she is dining out. He drowns his disappointment at his club
in the company of an old chum, Jock Grant-Menzies. Then he is
summoned to the telephone to receive a message from Brenda.
The first effect of the blindness of the telephone in the ensuing
dialogue is a comic one: Tony's affectionate greeting, "Darling,"
meets with a very formal response from an unidentified third party.
Tony doesn't seem to be able to grasp that this person is passing
on a message, but keeps asking, with the drunk's persistence, to
speak to his wife. There is pathos as well as comedy here, because
the desperately lonely Tony does indeed yearn to communicate
with his increasingly evasive and absent wife, and doesn't realize
that she is turning away from him. The reader assumes that the
third party is speaking from the place where Brenda dined - that
is implied by "She .. . has gone home to bed." But we discover
that this speaker is in fact Beaver, and that he is with Brenda,
possibly in that very bed, though of course Tony remains ignorant
of this fact. "'The old boy's plastered,' said Beaver as he rang off"
is a quite perfect sentence, simple though it may look. The
revelation of how Tony is being tricked is all the more effective for
being delayed as long as possible, casually implied in the speechtag. The words spoken, which might seem affectionately familiar
in another context, here express only contempt, callousness and
complete lack of compunction. Brenda does "feel rather awful
about" Tony, but in her next breath she turns normal ethics upside
down (a recurrent motif of the novel) by implying that it is he who
is at fault: "what can he expect, coming up suddenly like this?"
The telephone rings again, and again Tony asks to speak to
Brenda. "Tony, darling, this is me, Brenda." Comedy and treachery are deftly blended here: another misunderstanding by Tony, a
doubling of Brenda's betrayal in the insincere endearment, "darling". It is illogical of Tony to ask to speak to Brenda because he is
telephoning her late at night at a flat so small he is not able to
share it with her (he stays at his club); so if anyone answers it must
be her. Fuddled with drink, he is confusing this conversation with
171
THE TELEPHONE
the one he has just had with "some damn fooP supposedly calling
from the place where Brenda had been earlier. But of course this
"mistake" is no such thing. Brenda is quick to spot the danger and
prop up the lie: "I left a message from where I was dining."
There is a sense in which all dialogue in prose fiction is like
telephonic dialogue, because (unlike drama) it must make do
without the physical presence of the speakers. Indeed, fictional
dialogue is still more deprived, in being denied the expressive
timbre and intonation of the human voice. Some novelists try to
compensate by descriptive verbal phrases ("'No,' he whispered
hoarsely," "Tes!' she screamed ecstatically"), but Waugh has
chosen to let the context comment on the speech acts of his
characters, encouraging us to sound their words in our heads, and
make our own assessment of their vanity, cruelty and pathos.
As I write this, a book has just been published which might
reasonably be described as the Ultimate Telephone Novel. Vox
(1992), by the American writer Nicholson Baker, author of three
previous fictions of a highly original "minimalist" character, is
accurately described on the cover of the British edition as "a novel
about telephone sex." It consists of a long telephone conversation,
rendered entirely in dialogue form apart from a few speech-tags,
between a man and a woman on opposite coasts of North America,
whose only connection is an adult contact line. They exchange
detailed and mutually arousing information about their sexual
preferences, fantasies and experiences, finally achieving simultaneous orgasm by masturbation. The unnaturalness of the telephone as a medium of communication could hardly be more
strikingly epitomized than by using it as an instrument of sexual
excitation and release, since it precludes what is normally considered essential to the sexual act: physical contact and penetration.
Conversely one could say that telephone sex strikingly epitomizes
the perversity of masturbation. Not surprisingly, Vox has proved a
controversial novel, provoking sharply differing responses. Is it a
piece of up-market pornography, or a devastating indictment of
the sterility of sexual relations in the age of Aids, or a lifeenhancing celebration of the ability of human beings to achieve
172
THE TELEPHONE
harmless pleasure by co-operation? By writing the novel in dialogue
form, the author has left the task of answering this question entirely
to the reader - though not, of course, responsibility for having
posed it.
38 Surrealism
I tried to nod and move away at the same time, but my knees
were trembling so much that instead of going towards the
staircase I shuffled crabwise nearer and nearer the pot. When I
was well within range she suddenly jabbed the pointed knife
into my backside and with a scream of pain I leapt right into
the boiling soup and stiffened in a moment of intense agony
with my companions in distress, one carrot and two onions.
A mighty rumbling followed by crashes and there I was
standing outside the pot stirring the soup in which I could see
my own meat, feet up, boiling away as merrily as any joint of
beef. I added a pinch of salt and some peppercorns then ladled
out a measure into my granite dish. The soup was not as good
as a bouillabaisse but it was a good ordinary stew, very adequate
for the cold weather.
From a speculative point of view I wondered which of us I
was. Knowing that I had a piece of polished obsidian somewhere
in the cavern I looked around, intending to use it as a mirror.
Yes, there it was, hanging in its usual corner near the bat's nest.
I looked into the mirror. First I saw the face of the Abbess of
Santa Barbara de Tartarus grinning at me sardonically. She
faded and then I saw the huge eyes and feelers of the Queen
Bee who winked and transformed herself into my own face,
which looked slightly less ravaged, owing probably to the dark
surface of the obsidian.
LEONORA CARRINGTON The Hearing Trumpet (1976)
174
SURREALISM is better known and easier to define in the visual arts
than in literature: Dali, Duchamp, Magritte and Ernst are wellestablished figures in the history of modern art. But there was a
literary branch to the movement, which evolved in the nineteentwenties and thirties out of earlier modernist and Dadaist experiments. Indeed, the chief theorist of Surrealism was a poet, André
Breton, who declared that it was founded on "a belief in the
supreme quality of certain forms of association heretofore
neglected: in the omnipotence of dream, in the disinterested play
of thought."
Leonora Carrington is a rare example of a Surrealist equally
committed to visual and verbal art forms. A recent retrospective
exhibition of her paintings at the Serpentine Gallery in London
aroused much interest, and her novels and stories, published rather
obscurely in several languages at long intervals over several decades, are beginning to attract critical attention, especially from
feminists. Born in England, she was part of the heroic age of
Surrealism in pre-war Paris, where she lived with Max Ernst for
several years, before migrating to Mexico and the United States.
Her work is now perceived as pioneering a good deal of postmodernist experimentation, especially by women artists and writers
such as Angela Carter and Jeannette Winterson, who use surrealist
effects to subvert patriarchal cultural assumptions.
Surrealism is not quite the same as magic realism, which I
discussed earlier (Section 24), though there are obvious affinities
between them. In magic realism there is always a tense connection
between the real and the fantastic: the impossible event is a kind
of metaphor for the extreme paradoxes of modern history. In
surrealism, metaphors become the real, effacing the world of reason
and common sense. The Surrealists' favourite analogy for their art,
and often its source, was dreaming, in which, as Freud demonstrated, the unconscious reveals its secret desires and fears in vivid
images and surprising narrative sequences unconstrained by the
logic of our waking lives. The first great surrealist novel in the
English language was arguably Alice in Wonderland, the story of a
dream. Its influence is perceptible in this passage from Carrington's The Hearing Trumpet: in the jumbling together of the cruel
SURREALISM
and the grotesque with the domestic and the droll, in the matterof-fact narration of fantastic events, and in the Cheshire-Cat-like
visions of the faces in the obsidian mirror.
The narrator is a ninety-year-old Englishwoman called Marion
Leatherby, apparently living in Mexico with her son Galahad and
his wife Muriel. Marion is very deaf, but one day her friend
Carmella gives her an ear-trumpet of amazing sensitivity, with the
aid of which she overhears her son and his wife planning to put
her away in a home for senile women. This early part of the novel
is very amusingly written in a whimsical and eccentric style which
it is possible to "naturalize" as the private thoughts of an intelligent
but confused old lady:
Time, as we all know, passes. Whether it returns in quite the
same way is doubtful. A friend of mine who I did not mention up
till now because of his absence told me that a pink and a blue
universe cross each other in particles like two swarms of bees
and when a pair of different coloured beads hit each other
miracles happen. All this has something to do with time although
I doubt if I could explain it coherently.
Once Marion crosses the threshold of the Home, however, events
take an increasingly fantastic turn. In her living-quarters, for
instance:
The only real furniture was a wicker chair and a small table. All
the rest was painted. What I mean is that the walls were painted
with the furniture that wasn't there. It was so clever that I was
almost taken in at first. I tried to open the painted wardrobe, a
bookcase with books and their titles. An open window with a
curtain fluttering in the breeze, or rather it would have fluttered
if it were a real curtain .. . All this one-dimensional furniture
had a strangely depressing effect, like banging one's nose against
a glass door.
The institution is run by an authoritarian born-again Christian,
against whom the narrator and her friends eventually rebel,
inspired by the portrait of a mysteriously winking nun on the
dining-room wall. This nun is identified as an eighteenth-century
176
SURREALISM
Abbess who was canonized as a saint, but was in fact a worshipper
of the primal Mother or fertility goddess associated with the cult
of Aphrodite, who appears to the narrator in the form of a queen
bee. The story develops into a neo-pagan, feminist revision of the
Grail legend, facilitated by apocalyptic natural events - a new Ice
Age and an earthquake. A tower cracks open and reveals a staircase
which the narrator follows into the underworld, where she meets
her own double stirring a cauldron, and has the experience
described in the extract. The splitting of the subject into observer
and observed, both "meat" and cook, is a characteristically dreamlike effect, as is the juxtaposition of the homely detail, "I added a
pinch of salt and some peppercorns," with the violent and grotesque image of cannibalism. Such humorous touches are characteristic of the best Surrealist art, without which it is apt to become
emptily portentous and tiresomely self-indulgent. Fortunately Leonora Carrington is as witty as she is imaginative.
177
39
Her face, viewed so close that he could see the almost imperceptible down on those fruit-like cheeks, was astonishingly beautiful; the dark eyes were exquisitely misted; and he could feel the
secret loyalty of her soul ascending to him. She was very slightly
taller than her lover; but somehow she hung from him, her body
curved backwards, and her bosom pressed against his, so that
instead of looking up at her gaze he looked down at it. He
preferred that; perfectly proportioned though he was, his stature was a delicate point with him. His spirits rose by the uplift
of his senses. His fears slipped away; he began to be very
satisfied with himself. He was the inheritor of twelve thousand
pounds, and he had won this unique creature. She was his
capture; he held her close, permittedly scanning the minutiae
of her skin, permittedly crushing her flimsy silks. Something in
him had forced her to lay her modesty on the altar of his desire.
And the sun brightly shone. So he kissed her yet more ardently,
and with the slightest touch of a victor's condescension; and her
burning response more than restored the self-confidence which
he had been losing.
"I've got no one but you now," she murmured in a melting voice.
She fancied in her ignorance that the expression of this sentiment would please him. She was not aware that a man is usually
rather chilled by it, because it proves to him that the other is
thinking about his responsibilities and not about his privileges.
Certainly it calmed Gerald, though without imparting to him her
sense of his responsibilites. He smiled vaguely. To Sophia his
smile was a miracle continually renewed; it mingled dashing
gaiety with a hint of wistful appeal in a manner that never failed
to bewitch her. A less innocent girl than Sophia might have
divined from that adorable half-feminine smile that she could do
anything with Gerald except rely on him. But Sophia had to learn.
ARNOLD BENNETT The Old Wives* Tale (1908)
178
IN RHETORIC, irony consists of saying the opposite of what you
mean, or inviting an interpretation different from the surface
meaning of your words. Unlike other figures of speech - metaphor,
simile, metonymy, synecdoche etc. - irony is not distinguished
from literal statement by any peculiarity of verbal form. An ironic
statement is recognized as such in the act of interpretation. When,
for example, the authorial narrator of Pride and Prejudice says, "It is
a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
of a fortune, must be in want of a wife," the reader, alerted by the
false logic of the proposition about single men with fortunes,
interprets the "universal" generalization as an ironic comment on
a particular social group obsessed with matchmaking. The same
rule applies to action in narrative. When the reader is made aware
of a disparity between the facts of a situation and the characters'
understanding of it, an effect called "dramatic irony" is generated.
It has been said that all novels are essentially about the passage
from innocence to experience, about discovering the reality that
underlies appearances. It is not surprising, therefore, that stylistic
and dramatic irony are all-pervasive in this form of literature. Most
of the passages I have discussed in this book could have been
analysed under the heading of Irony.
Arnold Bennett employs two different methods in this passage
from The Old Wives' Tale to put his characters' behaviour in an
ironic perspective. Sophia, the beautiful, passionate but inexperienced daughter of a draper in the Potteries, is sufficiently dazzled
by Gerald Scales, a handsome commercial traveller who has
inherited a small fortune, to elope with him. The embrace
described here is their first in the privacy of their London lodgings.
What should be a moment of erotic rapture and emotional unity is
revealed as the physical conjunction of two people whose thoughts
are running on quite different tracks.
Gerald in fact intends to seduce Sophia, though in the event he
lacks the self-assurance to carry out his plan. Even in this embrace
he is at first nervous and tentative, "perceiving that her ardour was
exceeding his." But as the intimate contact continues, he becomes
more confident and masterful. There is probably a sexual pun
179
IRONY
hidden in "His spirits rose by the uplift of his senses," for Bennett
frequently hinted in this fashion at things he dared not describe
explicitly. Gerald's sexual arousal has nothing to do with love,
however, or even lust. It is a function of his vanity and self-esteem.
"Something in him had forced her to lay her modesty on the altar
of his desire." Like "the secret loyalty of her soul ascending to
him" earlier, this florid metaphor mocks the complacent thought it
expresses. The use of the word "altar" carries an extra ironic
charge since at this point Gerald has no intention of leading Sophia
to the altar of marriage.
Up to this point, Bennett keeps to Gerald's point of view, and
uses the kind of language appropriate to that perspective, thus
implying an ironic assessment of Gerald's character. The description of his timidity, vanity and complacency - so very different
from what he ought to be feeling in this situation - and the slighdy
absurd, inflated rhetoric in which he represents his emotions to
himself, are enough to condemn him in the reader's eyes. In the
second paragraph, however, Bennett uses the convention of the
omniscient intrusive author to switch to Sophia's point of view, and
to comment explicitly on her misconceptions, adding to the layers
of irony in the scene.
Sophia's thoughts are more creditable than Gerald's, but her
words, "I've got no one but you now," are partly calculated to
endear him to her. This merely reveals her naivety, however. As
the "burning" Sophia utters this sentiment in a "melting" voice,
Gerald is "chilled" by the reminder of his responsibilities. He
responds with a non-committal smile, which the infatuated Sophia
finds charming, but which, the narrator assures us, was an index of
his unreliability and a portent of disillusionment to come. The
authorial voice, dry, precise, urbane, overrides the "inner voice" of
Sophia to expose the fallibility of her judgment.
The reader, privileged with knowledge denied to the participants
in the scene, looks over the author's shoulder with pity for Sophia
and contempt for Gerald. One of Bennett's Notebook entries reads,
rather surprisingly, "Essential characteristic of the really great
novelist: a Christ-like, all-embracing compassion"; his treatment
180
IRONY
of Gerald fell short of that high standard. This type of irony leaves
us with little work of inference or interpretation to do; on the
contrary, we are the passive recipients of the author's worldly
wisdom. If the effect does not seem as heavy-handed as it easily
might, that is because the acuteness of Bennett's psychological
observation earns our respect, and because he allows characters
like Sophia to "learn" from their mistakes, and survive them.
181
40 Motivation
On the eleventh day, however, Lydgate when leaving Stone
Court was requested by Mrs Vincy to let her husband know that
there was a marked change in Mr Feathers tone's health, and
that she wished him to come to Stone Court on that day. Now
Lydgate might have called at the warehouse, or might have
written a message on a leaf of his pocket-book and left it at the
door. Yet these simple devices apparently did not occur to him,
from which we may conclude that he had no strong objection to
calling at the house at an hour when Mr Vincy was not at home,
and leaving the message with Miss Vincy. A man may, from
various motives, decline to give his company, but perhaps not
even a sage would be gratified that nobody missed him. It would
be a graceful, easy way of piecing on the new habits to the old,
to have a few playful words with Rosamond about his resistance
to dissipation, and his firm resolve to take long fasts even from
sweet sounds. It must be confessed, also, that momentary
speculations as to all the possible grounds for Mrs Bulstrode's
hints had managed to get woven like slight clinging hairs into
the more substantial web of his thoughts.
GEORGE YIAOT Middlemarch (1871-2)
WHAT KIND OF KNOWLEDGE do we hope to derive from reading
novels, which tell us stories we know are not "true"? One
traditional answer to that question is: knowledge of the human
heart, or mind. The novelist has an intimate access to the secret
thoughts of her characters denied to the historian, the biographer
or even the psychoanalyst. The novel, therefore, can offer us more
or less convincing models of how and why people act as they do.
182
Postmodernism and poststructuralism have deconstructed but not
demolished the Christian or liberal humanist ideas of the self on
which this project is based - the unique, autonomous individual
responsible for his or her own acts. We continue to value novels,
especially novels in the classic realist tradition, for the light they
throw on human motivation.
Motivation in a novel like Middlemarch is a code of causality. It
aims to convince us that the characters act as they do not simply
because it suits the interests of the plot (though it usually does, of
course: half the plot of Middlemarch would collapse if Lydgate did
not call on Rosamond Vincy in Chapter 31) but because a
combination of factors, some internal, some external, plausibly
cause them to do so. Motivation in the realist novel tends to be, in
Freudian language, "overdetermined", that is to say, any given
action is the product of several drives or conflicts derived from
more than one level of the personality; whereas in folk-tale or
traditional romance a single cause suffices to explain behaviour -
the hero is always courageous because he is the hero, the witch is
always malevolent because she is a witch, etc. etc. Lydgate has
several reasons for calling on Rosamond Vincy, some pragmatic,
some ego-gratifying, some self-deceiving, some subconscious.
The context of this passage is as follows: Lydgate is a talented
and ambitious young doctor with a promising medical career ahead
of him when he comes to the provincial town of Middlemarch in
the mid-1830s. There he meets and enjoys the company of
Rosamond Vincy, the attractive but rather shallow-minded daughter of a prosperous merchant. To Rosamond, Lydgate is the most
eligible man ever likely to appear on her horizons, and she soon
considers herself to be in love with him. Her aunt, Mrs Bulstrode,
warns Lydgate that his attentions to Rosamond may be interpreted
as courtship. Lydgate, who has no wish to hamper his medical
career with the responsibilities of marriage, immediately stops
visiting the Vincys. But, after ten days' abstention, he calls to
deliver a message.
George Eliot does not expose the secret motives of her characters with the ironic detachment of Arnold Bennett in the passage I
discussed in the previous section, but in a more speculative and
183
MOTIVATION
sympathetic fashion. At least, she is sympathetic to Lydgate. It has
been often noted that George Eliot is rather less tolerant of
beautiful, self-regarding women like Rosamond. In the paragraph
immediately preceding the one I have quoted, Rosamond's anxiety
about Lydgate's ten-day absence is rather dismissively summarized
as follows:
Any one who imagines ten days too short a time - not for falling
into leanness, lightness, or other measurable effects of passion,
but - for the whole spiritual circuit of alarmed conjecture and
disappointment, is ignorant of what can go on in the elegant
leisure of a young lady's mind.
"Elegant leisure" has a tone of tart disparagement that tends to
devalue Rosamond's emotional stress. The analysis of Lydgate's
motives is less summary, and more sympathetic, in style.
Instead of simply stating that Lydgate rejected other possible
means of delivering his message because he wanted to see Rosamond, the authorial voice notes that "these simple devices apparently did not occur to him, from which we may conclude that he
had no strong objections to calling at the house at an hour when
Mr Vincy was not at home, and leaving the message with Miss
Vincy." By this roundabout phrasing, George Eliot imitates both
the way we have to infer motives from behaviour in real life, and
the way we conceal our true motives even from ourselves. There is
irony here, but it is humorous and humane. "Perhaps not even a
sage would be gratified that nobody missed him," identifies
Lydgate's vanity as a universal failing. The discourse then slips
into free indirect style to show Lydgate's mental rehearsal of the
note he intends to strike with Rosamond: a "graceful, easy .. .
playful" signalling of his lack of serious intentions towards her.
The last sentence of the paragraph is authorial, and plumbs the
deepest level of Lydgate's motivation for calling on Rosamond: he
is fascinated and flattered by the suggestion that she may have
fallen in love with him, though he has hardly admitted this to
himself. The image of the web which George Eliot uses to express
this idea was a favourite one of hers, perhaps because it suggested
the complexity and interconnectedness of human experience.
184
MOTIVATION
Lydgate's vanity and curiosity are his undoing. What happens is
that Rosamond, normally so poised and self-controlled, reacts to
Lydgate's sudden, unexpected reappearance with barely controlled
emotion, and their meeting takes a quite different turn from the
one he had planned. Both parties are surprised into natural,
spontaneous behaviour which, in that society, at that time, has
momentous consequences. Rosamond, in her perturbation, drops
a "piece of trivial chain-work" which she has in her hands. Lydgate
stoops to pick it up, and as he rises to his feet notices the tears
welling irrepressibly in her eyes. "That moment of naturalness was
the crystallizing feather touch: it shook flirtation into love," says
the narrator. Within a few minutes Lydgate has taken Rosamond
in his arms and is an engaged man. "He did not know where the
chain went." Symbolically, it has gone round his neck: his professional future is mortgaged to a bourgeois marriage which will
bring him little happiness and no fulfilment. It is one of the most
brilliandy rendered "love-scenes" in English fiction; and it succeeds partly because Lydgate's motives for exposing himself to
Rosamond's powerful sexual allure are so subtly and convincingly
established beforehand.
185
4i Duration
Hubert gave Charles and Irene a nice baby for Christmas. The
baby was a boy and its name was Paul. Charles and Irene who
had not had a baby for many years were delighted. They stood
around the crib and looked at Paul; they could not get enough
of him. He was a handsome child with dark hair, dark eyes.
Where did you get him Hubert? Charles and Irene asked. From
the bank, Hubert said. It was a puzzling answer, Charles and
Irene puzzled over it. Everyone drank mulled wine. Paul
regarded them from the crib. Hubert was pleased to have been
able to please Charles and Irene. They drank more wine.
Eric was born.
Hubert and Irene had a clandestine affair. It was important
they felt that Charles not know. To this end they bought a bed
which they installed in another house, a house some distance
from the house in which Charles, Irene and Paul lived. The new
bed was small but comfortable enough. Paul regarded Hubert
and Irene thoughtfully. The affair lasted for twelve years and
was considered very successful.
Hilda.
Charles watched Hilda growing from his window. To begin
with, she was just a baby, then a four-year-old, then twelve
years passed and she was Paul's age, sixteen. What a pretty
young girl! Charles thought to himself. Paul agreed with
Charles; he had already bitten the tips of Hilda's pretty breasts
with his teeth.
DONALD BARTHELME "Will You Tell Me?"
Come Back, Dr Caligari (1964)
186
IN SECTION 16 I discussed chronology, and its possible rearrangement, in fiction. Another aspect of fictional time is duration, as
measured by comparing the time events would have taken up in
reality with the time taken to read about them. This factor affects
narrative tempo, the sense we have that a novel is fast-moving or
slow-moving. The adventure novel moves rapidly from one crisis to
another - though the rendering of the critical situations may be
artificially prolonged to increase suspense. The stream-of-consciousness novel lingers over every moment, however banal. A novel
like Middlemarch seems to approximate to the rhythm of life itself,
since so much of it consists of extended scenes in which the
characters speak and interact as they would have done in real time;
and for the original readers of that novel, buying it in bi-monthly
instalments over a whole year, the correspondence in tempo between
life and art would have seemed even closer. One of the disorienting
features of Donald Barthelme's story is that it skims rapidly over the
surface of emotional and sexual relationships that we are accustomed
to seeing treated in fiction with detailed deliberation.
Barthelme, who died in 1989, was one of the key figures in
American postmodernist fiction, whose stories continually tested
the limits of fictional form. It is not, of course, only duration which
is being handled rather unconventionally in the opening of this
story: causality, continuity, cohesion, consistency in point of view -
all the attributes that bind together the ingredients of realistic fiction
into a smooth, easily assimilable discourse - are also discarded or
disrupted. Motivation of the kind exemplified by the passage from
Middlemarch, discussed in the preceding section, is not on offer.
Barthelme implies that people do not act on rational motives, but in
response to whim, chance and unconscious drives - that life is, in a
word, "absurd". In this story he reports bizarre or alarming
behaviour in a matter-of-fact, faux-naifstyle that owes something to
primary-school reading books and children's "compositions" (an
effect generated by the simple declarative sentences, absence of
subordination, repetition of words in close proximity, and omission
of quotation marks). The characters are hardly more defined than
Janet and John and their parents, and sometimes seem as witless.
The first paragraph is technically a "scene", but a very laconic
187
DURATION
account is given of it. The idea of receiving a baby as a Christmas
present does not seem out of order to the recipients, and the
donor's statement that he got it "from the bank" is merely
"puzzling" to them. They calmly consume mulled wine without
pursuing the question.
In the next, one-line paragraph it is curtly reported that "Eric
was born" - we are not told, to whom, or in what temporal
relationship to the arrival of Paul.
The third paragraph describes an affair between Hubert and
Irene. There is a good deal of information about the couple's bed
- indeed, rather more than we need - but little about their
emotions, sexual pleasure, means of deceiving Charles, and all the
other details that we expect of an adultery story. We don't know
whether Hubert's gift of Paul preceded or followed his amorous
interest in Irene. We infer that she took the infant along with her
to their assignations, because "Paul regarded Hubert and Irene
thoughtfully." Then we are told that "the affair lasted for twelve
years and was considered very successful" - a judgment more
usually applied to a marriage than an affair. The sequence of a
sentence describing a particular moment in time, followed immediately by one summarizing the experience of twelve years, is highly
disconcerting.
Another character, Hilda, is introduced in a one-word paragraph. From the next paragraph we infer that she is a child living
nextdoor to Charles and Irene. Her growth from infancy to
adolescence is summarized in a single sentence of stunning
obviousness. If the adults act like children, the children seem
disturbingly precocious: while Charles tritely registers that Hilda is
a pretty girl, Paul has already "bitten the tips of Hilda's pretty
breasts". In twenty-odd lines we have covered enough events to fill
an entire novel in the hands of another writer. This kind of writing
does indeed depend on the reader's familiarity with a more
conventional and realistic fictional discourse to make its effect.
Deviations can only be perceived against a norm.
188
42 Implication
"Don't you think you ought to come away from the window,
darling?"
"Why?"
"You've got nothing on."
"All the better ... " Out of respect for her delicacy I closed
the window with a bang that drowned the end of my remark.
She was smiling at me. I went over and stood beside her. She
looked appealing, resting on one elbow, with her dark hair
sweeping over her smooth naked shoulder. I looked down on
the top of her head.
Suddenly she blew.
"Wonderful Albert," she said.
I may say that my name is not Albert. It is Joe. Joe Lunn.
Myrtle looked up at me in sly inquiry.
I suppose I grinned.
After a while she paused.
"Men are lucky," she said, in a deep thoughtful tone. I said
nothing: I thought it was no time for philosophical observations.
I stared at the wall opposite.
Finally she stopped.
"Well?" I looked down just in time to catch her subsiding with
a shocked expression on her face.
"Now," I said, "you'll have to wait again for your tea."
"Ah ..." Myrtle gave a heavy, complacent sigh. Her eyes were
closed.
In due course we had our tea.
WILLIAM COOPER Scenes from Provincial Life (1950)
IMPLICATION
A TRULY EXHAUSTIVE description of any event is impossible; from
which it follows that all novels contain gaps and silences which the
reader must fill, in order to "produce the text" (as poststructuralist
critics say). But in some cases these gaps and silences are the result
of unconscious evasions or suppressions on the writer's part (and
no less interesting for that) while in others they are a conscious
artistic strategy, to imply rather than state meaning.
Implication is a particularly useful technique in the treatment of
sexuality. The novel has always been centrally concerned with
erotic attraction and desire, but until recently the explicit description of sexual acts in literary fiction was prohibited. Innuendo was
one solution.
"Pray, my Dear," quoth my mother, "have you not forgot to wind
up the clock?" .. . "Good God!" cried my father .. . "Did ever
woman, since the creation of the world, interrupt a man with
such a silly question." Pray, what was your father saying? .. .
Nothing.
From this exchange between Tristram Shandy and his invented
reader we may infer that his father was doing something, namely,
begetting Tristram.
In the notoriously prudish Victorian period sex was treated with
much greater reticence. Novels were for family reading, and could
contain nothing that might, in the words of Dickens's Mr Podsnap,
"bring a blush into the cheek of the young person." The scene in
a recent BBC television adaptation of Adam Bede, depicting Arthur
Donnithorne entwined on a couch with the half-naked Hetty
Sorrel, has no equivalent in George Eliot's novel, the more
innocent readers of which might well have assumed that Hetty was
impregnated by a kiss. The non-consummation of Dorothea's
marriage to Casaubon in Middlemarch is conveyed to the alert
reader by the subtlest of hints, many of them metaphorical. As late
as 1908, in The Old Wives* Tale, Arnold Bennett passes over
Sophia's wedding night in silence, but suggests that it was an
unpleasant and disillusioning experience by presenting it in a
displaced form: the degrading spectacle of a public guillotining, all
190
IMPLICATION
blood and phallic symbolism, which Gerald forces her to witness
on their honeymoon.
By the time William Cooper published Scenes from Provincial
Life, the boundaries of the permissible had been considerably
extended, but it is unlikely that the particular activity in which his
lovers are engaged here could have been plainly described in 1950
without attracting prosecution. Cooper goes to the very edge of
explicitness, teasing his reader into the inferential construction of
a scene that is both witty and erotic.
The narrator and his girlfriend have gone to bed in the country
cottage that he shares with his friend Tom. He is just about to
offer to make a cup of tea when he hears what he supposes to be
the sound of Tom's car, and gets out of bed to check. Myrtle's
remark tells us that he is naked. We can complete his reply, "All
the better ..." easily enough, since it seems to have the same
structure as the Wolf's remarks to Red Riding Hood and we are
told that the missing verbal phrase is indelicate. The next paragraph allows us to picture the naked narrator standing above his
reclining, and also naked, mistress. "Suddenly she blew." With
human subjects this verb usually takes an object, sometimes after a
preposition like "on", but we must guess what it is. "'Wonderful
Albert,' she said." Since the next paragraph eliminates the most
obvious candidate for the identity of Albeit, we are left in little
doubt that it must be the familiar nickname of the object of "blew".
(That this also provides an occasion for the narrator to introduce
himself formally by name is an additional source of amusement.)
We are not told what activity Myrtle "paused" from, but, as with
Mr Shandy, it was not speaking, since she speaks after pausing.
And so on. The abnormally short paragraphs emphasize the fact
that much more is going on than is being said, or described.
Like Sterne's, Cooper's use of implication is not just an
expedient: it carries a creative bonus of humour. A decade or so
later, however, the Lady Chatterley trial swept away all the taboos
that made such artful indirection mandatory, to the regret of many
readers, and some writers. Kingsley Amis, for instance, though his
stories are much concerned with sexual behaviour, has made
something of a fetish of not attempting to describe the act itself.
191
IMPLICATION
There is a passage in his recent novel, The Folks That Live on the
Hilly which makes the point and at the same time illustrates how
implication is used in casual speech to refer to sex:
"Let's have a nice early night tonight," said Désirée. This
apparently straightforward proposal had several levels of meaning. An early night and no more meant something like what it
said, was basically a temporal expression, advertised that there
would be no later part to the evening, no social extension or
excursion .. . a nice early night meant not merely the exclusion of
anything in the way of company but the inclusion of what it
would be only fair, what it is indeed inescapable, to call sexual
activity. This is .. . better, much better, guessed at than
described.
The explicit treatment of sexual acts is certainly another challenge
to the novelist's artistry - how to avoid reiterating the language of
pornography, how to defamiliarize the inherently limited repertoire
of sexual acts - but not one that I propose to tackle in this book.
192
43 The Tide
The last volume was written in fourteen days. In this achievement Reardon rose almost to heroic pitch, for he had much to
contend with beyond the mere labour of composition. Scarcely
had he begun when a sharp attack of lumbago fell upon him;
for two or three days it was torture to support himself at the
desk, and he moved about like a cripple. Upon this ensued
headaches, sore throat, general enfeeblement. And before the
end of the fortnight it was necessary to think of raising another
small sum of money; he took his watch to the pawnbroker's
(you can imagine that it would not stand as security for much),
and sold a few more books. All this notwithstanding, here was
the novel at length finished. When he had written "The End" he
lay back, closed his eyes, and let time pass in blankness for a
quarter of an hour.
It remained to determine the title. But his brain refused
another effort; after a few minutes' feeble search he simply took
the name of the chief female character, Margaret Home. That
must do for the book. Already, with the penning of the last
word, all its scenes, personages, dialogues had slipped away into
oblivion; he knew and cared nothing more about them.
GEORGE GISSING New Grub Street (1891)
THE TITLE of a novel is part of the text - the first part of it, in fact,
that we encounter - and therefore has considerable power to
attract and condition the reader's attention. The titles of the
earliest English novels were invariably the names of the central
characters, Moll Flanders, Tom Jones, Clarissa. Fiction was modelling itself on, and sometimes disguising itself as, biography and
193
THE TITLE
autobiography. Later novelists realized that titles could indicate a
theme (Sense and Sensibility), suggest an intriguing mystery (The
Woman in White), or promise a certain kind of setting and
atmosphere (Wuthering Heights). At some point in the nineteenth
century they began to hitch their stories to resonant literary
quotations (Far From the Madding Crowd), a practice that persists
throughout the twentieth (Where Angels Fear To Tread, A Handful of
Dust, For Whom the Bell Tolls), though it is now perhaps regarded
as a little corny. The great modernists were drawn to symbolic or
metaphorical titles - Heart of Darkness, Ulysses, The Rainbow - while
more recent novelists often favour whimsical, riddling, off-beat
titles, like The Catcher in the Rye, A History of the World in 10V2
Chapters, For Black Girls Who Consider Suicide When The Rainbow Is
Not Enuf
For the novelist, choosing a title may be an important part of the
creative process, bringing into sharper focus what the novel is
supposed to be about. Charles Dickens, for instance, jotted down
fourteen possible titles for the serial novel he planned to start early
in 1854: According to Cocker, Prove It, Stubborn Things, Mr Gradgrind's Facts, The Grindstone, Hard Times, Two and Two Are Four,
Something Tangible, Our Hard-hearted Friend, Rust and Dust, Simple
Arithmetic, A Matter of Calculation, A Mere Question of Figures, The
Gradgrind Philosophy. Most of these suggest that at this stage
Dickens was preoccupied with the theme of Utilitarianism, as
incarnated in Mr Gradgrind. His ultimate choice of Hard Times is
consistent with the broader social concerns of the finished novel.
Edwin Reardon's indifference to the naming of his novel is a
symptom of his loss of faith in his vocation. Having married
imprudently after publishing a few novels of modest literary merit
but limited circulation, he is compelled to churn out formulaic
three-deckers, which he despises, at a crippling rate of production,
to make ends meet. Gissing was expressing his own frustration
as a struggling author in this book, and gave careful thought to
its tide. As he explained to a foreign correspondent, "Grub
Street actually existed in London some hundred and fifty years
ago. In Pope and his contemporaries it has become synonymous
for wretched-authordom .. . an abode not merely of poor, but
194
THE TITLE
of insignificant writers." By Gissing's time the literary marketplace had become much bigger, more competitive, and publicityconscious. Reardon is a memorable portrait of a writer who is not
quite gifted enough, or cynical enough, to survive in this milieu.
Neither is his idealistic young friend Biffen, who, still full of
enthusiasm and idealism, plans to write a mould-breaking novel
faithfully recording the banal life of an ordinary man. His
announcement of its title provides one of New Grub Streefs few
laughs: "I've decided to write a book called 'Mr Bailey, Grocer.'"
When eventually published, it is admired by his friends but panned
by the reviewers, and Biffen calmly commits suicide, Reardon
having died from overwork in the meantime. New Grub Street is not
a very cheerful book, but as a study in the pathology of the literary
life it is unequalled, and still surprisingly relevant.
Novels have always been commodities as well as works of art,
and commercial considerations can affect titles, or cause them to
be changed. Thomas Hardy offered Macmillan a choice between
Fitzpiers at Hintock and The Woodlanders; not surprisingly, they
plumped for the latter. Ford Madox Ford's The Good Soldier was
originally entitled The Saddest Story (of course); but it came out in
the middle of the Great War, and his publishers persuaded him to
go for a less depressing, more patriotic title. The title of Martin
Amis's second novel, Dead Babies (1975) was apparently too
shocking to his first paperback publishers, who issued it two years
later as Dark Secrets. The American publishers of my How Far Can
You Go? persuaded me to change its name to Souls and Bodies on
the grounds that the British title would be shelved by American
bookshops under How To Do It books, a silly argument to which I
have always regretted yielding. (I don't know what they would have
done with Carol Clewlow's A Woman's Guide to Adultery, or
Georges Perec's Life: a User's Manual) I wanted to call my third
novel The British Museum Had Lost Its Charm, a line from the song,
"A Foggy Day (in London Town)", but the Gershwin Publishing
Corporation wouldn't let me; so I had to change it at the last
minute to The British Museum is Falling Down, though the inspiration of the song left its trace in the fog-shrouded one-day action of
the novel. Perhaps titles always mean more to authors than to
195
THE TITLE
readers, who, as every writer knows, frequently forget or garble the
names of books they claim to admire. I have been credited with
novels called Changing Wives, Trading Places and Small Change, and
Professor Bernard Crick once mentioned in a letter that he had
enjoyed my Having It Off, but perhaps he was having me on. (I
couldn't tell which of my books he was referring to.)
196
44 Ideas
"Please, I must do something. Shall I clean your boots? Look,
I'll get down and lick them." And, my brothers, believe it or kiss
my shames, I got down on my knees and pushed my red
yahzick out a mile and half to lick his grahzny vonny boots. But
all this veck did was to kick me not too hard on the rot. So then
it seemed to me that it would not bring on the sickness and pain
if I just gripped his ankles with my rookers tight round them
and brought this grahzny bratchny down to the floor. So I did
this and he got a real bolshy surprise, coming down crack amid
loud laughter from the vonny audience. But viddying him on
the floor I could feel the whole horrible feeling coming over me,
so I gave him my rooker to lift him up skorry and up he came.
Then just as he was going to give me a real nasty and earnest
tolchock on the litso Dr Brodsky said:
"All right, that will do very well." Then this horrible veck sort
of bowed and danced off like an actor while the lights came up
on me blinking and with my rot square for howling. Dr Brodsky
said to the audience: "Our subject is, you see, impelled towards
the good by, paradoxically, being impelled towards evil. The
intention to act violently is accompanied by strong feelings of
physical distress. To counter these the subject has to switch to
a diametrically opposed attitude. Any questions?"
"Choice," rumbled a rich deep goloss. I viddied it belonged to
the prison charlie. "He has no real choice, has he? Self-interest,
fear of physical pain, drove him to that grotesque act of selfabasement. Its insincerity was clearly to be seen. He ceases to
be a wrongdoer. He ceases also to be a creature capable of
moral choice."
ANTHONY BURGESS A Clockwork Orange (1962)
197
T HE TERM "novel of ideas" usually suggests a book light on
narrative interest, in which abnormally articulate characters bat
philosophical questions back and forth between themselves, with
brief intervals for eating, drinking and flirtation. It is a venerable
tradition which goes back to Plato's Dialogues, but it has a high
rate of obsolescence. In the nineteenth century, for example,
hundreds of novels were published in which the rival claims and
merits of High- and Low-Church Anglicanism, Roman Catholicism, Dissent and Honest Doubt were expounded in this fashion,
with a dash of melodrama thrown in for the sake of the circulating
libraries, and most of them are utterly and deservedly forgotten.
The ideas no longer interest, and their exposition has deprived the
characters and action of any life.
A name sometimes given to that kind of novel is roman à thèse,
the novel with a thesis, and it is significant that we have borrowed
it from the French language. The novel of ideas, whether it has a
specific thesis, or is more broadly speculative and dialectical, has
always seemed more at home in Continental European literature
than in English. Perhaps this has something to do with the oftennoted absence of a self-defined intelligentsia in English society, a
fact sometimes attributed to the fact that Britain has not experienced a Revolution since the seventeenth century, and has
remained comparatively untouched by the convulsions of modern
European history. Whatever the reason, Dostoevsky, Thomas
Mann, Robert Musil, Jean-Paul Sartre, are novelists for whom
there is no real equivalent to be found in modern English literature.
Perhaps D. H. Lawrence came closest, especially in Women in
Love, but the ideas debated and expounded in his work were very
personal, not to say eccentric, and sat at an odd angle to the main
current of modern European thought.
Of course any novel worth more than a cursory glance contains
ideas, provokes ideas, and can be discussed in terms of ideas. But
by "novel of ideas" one means to denote a novel in which ideas
seem to be the source of the work's energy, originating and shaping
and maintaining its narrative momentum - rather than, say,
emotions, moral choice, personal relationships, or the mutations of
human fortune. In this sense English novelists have been more
198
IDEAS
comfortable dealing directly with ideas either in comic and satirical
fiction (including the campus novel) or in various forms of fable
and Utopian or dystopian fantasy. I have glanced earlier at examples
of both types - Malcolm Bradbury's The History Man and Samuel
Butler's Erewhon, for instance. Anthony Burgess's A Clockwork
Orange belongs to the second type.
Anthony Burgess has recorded in his autobiography that this
novel was originally inspired by the delinquent behaviour of the
young hooligans who went under the tribal names of Mods and
Rockers in Britain circa i960, and the perennial problem they
posed: how can a civilized society protect itself against anarchic
violence without compromising its own ethical standards? "I saw,"
the maverick Catholic Burgess recalls, "that the novel would have
to have a metaphysical or theological base .. . the artificial
extirpation of free will through scientific conditioning; the question
whether this might not.. . be a greater evil than the free choice of
evil."
The story is told in the confessional, colloquial mode, by Alex, a
vicious young hoodlum who is convicted of appalling crimes of sex
and violence. To obtain his release from prison, he agrees to
undergo Pavlovian aversion therapy, in which exposure to films
revelling in the kind of acts he committed is accompanied by
nausea-inducing drugs. The effectiveness of the treatment is
demonstrated in the scene from which this extract is taken. Before
an audience of criminologists, Alex is taunted and abused (by an
actor hired for the purpose), but as soon as he feels an urge to
retaliate he is overcome with nausea and reduced to grovelling
appeasement. The prison chaplain asks whether he has not been
dehumanized in the process.
Like many similar novels of ideas - Morris's News from Nowhere,
Huxley's Brave New World, Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-four, for
example -A Clockwork Orange is set in the future (though not very
far) so that the novelist can set up the terms of his ethical debate
with dramatic starkness, and without the constraints of social
realism. Burgess's masterstroke was to combine this well-tried
strategy with a highly inventive version of what I called, in
discussing Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye, "teenage skaz" (see
199
IDEAS
Section 4). Teenagers and criminals alike use slang as a tribal
shibboleth, to distinguish themselves from adult, respectable
society. Burgess imagines that in the England of the 1970s,
youthful delinquents have adopted a style of speech heavily influenced by Russian (a conceit that would not have seemed so
outlandish in the days of the Sputnik as it does now). Alex tells his
story to an implied audience of "droogs" (Russian drugi: friends)
in this argot, which is known as nadsat (the Russian suffix for
"teen"), though he uses standard English in dialogue with officialdom. There is a bit of Cockney rhyming slang in the dialect
("charlie" = Charlie Chaplin = chaplain) but basically it's derived
from Russian. You don't have to know Russian, however, to guess
that, in the second sentence of this extract, "shames" means
buttocks, "yahzick" tongue, "grahzny" dirty and "vonny" stinking,
especially if you've read the previous 99 pages of the novel. Burgess
intended that his readers should gradually learn the language of
nadsat as they went along, inferring the meaning of the loanwords
from the context and other clues. The reader thus undergoes a
kind of Pavlovian conditioning, though reinforced by reward (being
able to follow the story) rather than punishment. A bonus is that
the stylized language keeps the appalling acts that are described in
it at a certain aesthetic distance, and protects us from being too
revolted by them - or too excited. When the novel was made into a
film by Stanley Kubrick, the power of conditioning was given a
further ironic demonstration: Kubrick's brilliant translation of its
violent action into the more illusionistic and accessible visual
medium made the movie an incitement to the very hooliganism it
was examining, and caused the director to withdraw it.
200
45 The Non-Fiction Novel
By and by, we note a thickset Individual, in round hat and
peruke, arm-and-arm with some servant, seemingly of the
Runner or Courier sort; he also issues through Villequier's
door; starts a shoebuckle as he passes one of the sentries,
stoops down to clasp it again; is however, by the Glasscoachman, still more cheerfully admitted. And now, is his fare
complete? Not yet; the Glass-coachman still waits. - Alas! and
the false Chambermaid has warned Gouvion that she thinks
the Royal Family will fly this very night; and Gouvion, distrusting his own glazed eyes, has sent express for Lafayette; and
Lafayette's Carriage, flaring with lights, rolls this moment
through the inner Arch of the Carrousel, - where a Lady
shaded in broad gypsy-hat, and leaning on the arm of a
servant, also of the Runner or Courier sort, stands aside to let
it pass, and has even the whim to touch a spoke of it with her
badine, - light little magic rod which she calls badine, such as
the Beautiful then wore. The flare of Lafayette's Carriage rolls
past: all is found quiet in the Court-of-Princes; sentries at
their post; Majesties' Apartments closed in smooth rest. Your
false Chambermaid must have been mistaken? Watch thou,
Gouvion, with Argus' vigilance; for, of a truth, treachery is
within these walls.
But where is the Lady that stood aside in gypsy-hat, and
touched the wheel-spoke with her badiné? O Reader, that Lady
that touched the wheel-spoke was the Queen of France! She
has issued safe through that inner Arch, into the Carrousel
itself; but not into the Rue de l'Echelle. Flurried by the rattle
and rencounter, she took the right hand not the left; neither she
nor her Courier knows Paris; he indeed is no Courier, but a
loyal stupid ci-devant Bodyguard disguised as one. They are
off, quite wrong, over the Pont Royal and River; roaming
disconsolate in the Rue de Bac; far from the Glass-coachman,
201
who still waits. Waits, with flutter of heart; with thoughts -
which he must button close up, under his jarvie-surtout!
Midnight clangs from all the City-steeples; one precious
hour has been spent so; most mortals are asleep. The Glasscoachman waits; and in what mood! A brother jarvie drives up,
enters into conversation; is answered cheerfully in jarvie-dialect: the brothers of the whip exchange a pinch of snuff; decline
drinking together, and part with good night. Be the Heavens
blest! here at length is the Queen-lady, in gypsy-hat; safe after
perils; who has had to inquire her way. She too is admitted; her
Courier jumps aloft, as the other, who is also a disguised
Bodyguard, has done; and now, O Glass-coachman of a thousand, - Count Fersen, for the Reader sees it is thou, - drive!
THOMAS CARLYLE The French Revolution (1837)
THE "NON-FICTION NOVEL" is a term originally coined by Truman
Capote to describe his In Cold Blood: A True Account of a Multiple
Murder and Its Consequences (1966). In 1959 four members of a
model midwestern family were brutally and pointlessly murdered
by a pair of rootless psychopaths from America's underclass.
Capote investigated the family's history and its social milieu,
interviewed the criminals on Death Row and witnessed their
eventual execution. Then he wrote an account of the crime and its
aftermath in which these scrupulously researched facts were
integrated into a gripping narrative that in style and structure was
indistinguishable from a novel. It started something of a vogue for
documentary narrative in recent times, high points of which have
been books like Tom Wolfe's Radical Chic and The Right Stuff,
Norman Mailer's Armies of the Night and The Executioner's Song,
and Thomas Keneally's Schindler's Ark. "Non-fiction novel" is a
self-evidently paradoxical phrase, and it is not surprising that such
books are often the object of some suspicion and controversy as to
their generic identity. Are they works of history, reportage, or
imagination? Schindler's Ark, for instance (based on the true and
202
THE NON-FICTION NOVEL
extraordinary story of a German businessman who used his
position as an employer of forced labour in Nazi-occupied Poland
to save the lives of many Jews) was published as non-fiction in
America, but won the Booker prize for fiction in Britain.
Tom Wolfe began his literary career as a journalist covering the
more bizarre manifestations of American popular culture, and then
began to develop his themes in the form of extended narratives like
Radical Chic, his wickedly funny account of trendy New York
intellectuals hosting a fund-raising event for the Black Panthers.
Other writers were working in a similar vein in America in the
nineteen-sixties and -seventies, and Wolfe saw himself as leading
a new literary movement which he called "The New Journalism",
the title of an anthology he edited in 1973. In the Introduction to
this volume he claimed that the New Journalism had taken over
the novel's traditional task of describing contemporary social
reality, which had been neglected by literary novelists too obsessed
with myth, fabulation and metafictional tricks to notice what was
going on around them. (Later Wolfe himself tried, with some
success, to revive the panoramic social novel in Bonfire of the
Vanities)
In the non-fiction novel, new journalism, "faction", or whatever
one calls it, the novelistic techniques generate an excitement,
intensity and emotive power that orthodox reporting or historiography do not aspire to, while for the reader the guarantee that the
story is "true" gives it a compulsion that no fiction can quite equal.
Although it is a popular form of narrative today, it has in fact been
around for quite a long time in various guises. The novel itself as a
literary form evolved partly out of early journalism — broadsheets,
pamphlets, criminals' "confessions", accounts of disasters, battles
and extraordinary happenings, which were circulated to an eagerly
credulous readership as true stories, though they almost certainly
contained an element of invention. Daniel Defoe began his career
as a novelist by imitating these allegedly documentary narratives,
in works like True Relation of the Apparition of one Mrs Veal, and
Journal of the Plague Year. Before the development of "scientific"
historical method in the late nineteenth century there was a good
deal of cross-fertilization between the novel and historiography:
203
THE NON-FICTION NOVEL
Scott regarded himself as being as much a historian as a novelist,
and in The French Revolution Carlyle wrote more like a novelist than
a modern historian.
In the introduction to his anthology of New Journalism, Tom
Wolfe distinguished four techniques it had borrowed from the
novel: (i) telling the story through scenes rather than summary; (2)
preferring dialogue to reported speech; (3) presenting events from
the point of view of a participant rather than from some impersonal
perspective; (4) incorporating the kind of detail about people's
appearance, clothes, possessions, body language, etc. which act as
indices of class, character, status and social milieu in the realistic
novel. Carlyle used all these devices in The French Revolution
(1837), and a few others that Wolfe omitted to mention, such as
the "present historic" tense, and the involvement of the reader as
narratee, to create the illusion that we are witnessing or eavesdropping on historical events.
The passage quoted describes the flight of Louis XVI, MarieAntoinette and their children in June 1792 from the palace of The
Tuileries where they had been confined by the National Assembly,
partly as hostages against an invasion of France by neighbouring
monarchist states. The Swedish Count Fersen masterminded the
night escape, from which Carlyle extracts the maximum amount of
narrative interest. First (just
 before the quoted passage) he
describes a common "glass-coach" (privately-hired carriage) waiting in the Rue de l'Echelle near to the Tuileries. At intervals,
unidentified and shrouded figures slip through an unguarded door
of the palace and are admitted to this vehicle. One of them, who,
we might guess, is the King in disguise, "starts a shoebuckle" as
he passes a sentry - a suspense-enhancing device of a kind familiar
in adventure-stories. Carlyle gives a narrative voice to suspense:
"And now, is his fare complete? Not yet ..." Meanwhile, inside
the palace, suspicions have been aroused, jeopardizing the whole
enterprise. In a series of rapid statements, telescoping time, Carlyle
recapitulates these developments and brings his narrative back to
the present, "this moment" when Lafayette, Commander of the
National Guard, arrives to investigate. The last of the passengers
awaited by the glass-coach, her face screened by a gypsy-hat, is
204
THE NON-FICTION NOVEL
Marie-Antoinette, who has to stand aside as the coach of Lafayette
wheels through the gate. As if to illustrate the narrowness of her
escape, she touches the spoke of the wheel with a little ornamental
rod called a badine "such as the Beautiful then wore". Throughout
the passage Carlyle uses clothing in a way that Tom Wolfe would
approve of, to indicate both the real status of the personages and
the lengths they have to go to to disguise it.
The Queen and her bodyguard are so ignorant of the geography
of their own capital that they immediately get lost, a nicely pointed
irony which also increases the suspense, registered by the coachman's "flutter of heart .. . under his jarvie-surtout". The reader
has probably already guessed that this person is Count Fersen
himself, but by delaying the revelation of his identity Carlyle adds
more mystery to the narrative brew. Fersen is the main point-ofview character in the second paragraph. "Be the Heavens blest!" is
his exclamation or unvoiced thought when Marie-Antoinette finally
appears. The effect of this narrative method is of course to make
the reader identify with the plight of the fleeing royals, and perhaps
the scene does betray Carlyle's fundamental emotional sympathies,
although in the book as a whole he presents the Revolution as a
Nemesis which the ancien régime brought down upon itself.
Carlyle steeped himself in the documents of the French Revolution like a historian, then synthesized and dramatized this mass
of data like a moralizing novelist. No wonder Dickens was enraptured by the book, and carried it about with him everywhere on its
first publication. Not only A Tale of Two Cities, but also Dickens's
panoramic novels of English society were indebted to its example.
Whether every detail in this extract had a documentary source, I
do not know. Marie-Antoinette's gesture with her badine is so
specific that I don't think Carlyle would have risked inventing it,
though he cites no authority. The idea of Count Fersen having his
impersonation of a cab-driver tested by conversation with the
genuine article is more suspicious, because it heightens the
suspense so conveniently. Perhaps anticipating this reaction, Carlyle gives two sources for the episode in a footnote. This kind of
writing thrives on the old adage that truth is stranger than fiction.
205
46 Metafiction
Hunchbacks, fat ladies, fools - that no one chose what he was
was unbearable. In the movies he'd meet a beautiful young girl
in the funhouse; they'd have hairs-breadth escapes from real
dangers; he'd do and say the right things; she also; in the end
they'd be lovers: their dialogue Unes would match up; he'd be
perfectly at ease; she'd not only like him well enough, she'd
think he was marvellous; she'd lie awake thinking about him,
instead of vice versa - the way his face looked in different lights
and how he stood and exactly what he'd said - and yet that
would be only one small episode in his wonderful life, among
many others. Not a turning point at all. What had happened in
the toolshed was nothing. He hated, he loathed his parents! One
reason for not writing a lost-in-the-funhouse story is that either
everybody's felt what Ambrose feels, in which case it goes
without saying, or else no normal person feels such things, in
which case Ambrose is a freak. "Is anything more tiresome, in
fiction, than the problems of sensitive adolescents?" And it's all
too long and rambling, as if the author. For all a person knows
the first time through, the end could be just around any corner;
perhaps, not impossibly it's been within reach any number of
times. On the other hand he may be scarcely past the start, with
everything yet to get through, an intolerable idea.
JOHN BARTH Lost in the Funhouse (1968)
METAFICTION is fiction about fiction: novels and stories that call
attention to their fictional status and their own compositional
procedures. The grandaddy of all metafictional novels was Tristram
Shandyy whose narrator's dialogues with his imaginary readers are
206
only one of many ways in which Sterne foregrounds the gap
between art and life that conventional realism seeks to conceal.
Metafiction, then, is not a modern invention; but it is a mode that
many contemporary writers find particularly appealing, weighed
down, as they are, by their awareness of their literary antecedents,
oppressed by the fear that whatever they might have to say has
been said before, and condemned to self-consciousness by the
climate of modern culture.
In the work of English novelists, metafictional discourse most
commonly occurs in the form of "asides" in novels primarily
focused on the traditional novelistic task of describing character
and action. These passages acknowledge the artificiality of the
conventions of realism even as they employ them; they disarm
criticism by anticipating it; they flatter the reader by treating him
or her as an intellectual equal, sophisticated enough not to be
thrown by the admission that a work of fiction is a verbal
construction rather than a slice of life. This, for instance, is how
Margaret Drabble begins Part Three of her novel, The Realms of
Gold, after a long, realistic and well-observed account of a suburban dinner party given by the more repressed of her two
heroines:
And that is enough, for the moment, of Janet Bird. More than
enough, you might reasonably think, for her life is slow, even
slower than its description, and her dinner party seemed to go on
too long to her, as it did to you. Frances Wingate's life moves
much faster. (Though it began rather slowly, in these pages - a
tactical error, perhaps, and the idea of starting her off in a more
manic moment has frequently suggested itself, but the reasons
against such an opening are stronger, finally, than the reasons
for it.)
There are echoes here of Tristram Shandy, utterly different though
Margaret Drabble's novel is in tone and subject matter, in the
humorously apologetic address to the reader and the highlighting
of the problems of narrative construction, especially in respect of
"duration" (see Section 41). Such admissions however do not
occur frequently enough to fundamentally disturb the novel's
207
METAFICTION
project, which is to examine the lot of educated women in modern
society in a fictional story that is detailed, convincing and satisfying
in a traditional way.
With other modern writers, mostly non-British - the Argentinian
Borges, the Italian Calvino and the American John Barth come to
mind, though John Fowles also belongs in this company - metafictional discourse is not so much a loophole or alibi by means of
which the writer can occasionally escape the constraints of traditional realism; rather, it is a central preoccupation and source of
inspiration. John Barth once wrote an influential essay entitled
"The Literature of Exhaustion", in which, without actually using
the word "metafiction", he invoked it as the means by which "an
artist may paradoxically turn the felt ultimacies of our time into
material and means for his work." There are, of course, dissenting
voices, like Tom Wolfe's (see the preceding section), who see such
writing as symptomatic of a decadent, narcissistic literary culture.
"Another story about a writer writing a story! Another regressus ad
infinitum\ Who doesn't prefer art that at least overtly imitates
something other than its own processes?" But that complaint was
voiced by Barth himself, in "Life-Story", one of the pieces in his
collection, Lost in the Funhouse. Metafictional writers have a sneaky
habit of incorporating potential criticism into their texts and thus
"fictionalizing" it. They also like to undermine the credibility of
more orthodox fiction by means of parody.
The title story of Lost in the Funhouse traces Barth's attempt to
write a story about a family outing to Atlantic City in the nineteenforties. The central character is the adolescent Ambrose, who is
accompanying his parents, his brother Peter, his uncle Karl, and
Magda, a childhood playmate now a teenager like himself, and
therefore an object of sexual interest. (Ambrose wistfully remembers a pre-pubescent game of Masters and Slaves in the course of
which Magda led him to the toolshed and "purchased clemency at
a surprising price set by herself.") Essentially it is a story of
adolescent yearning for freedom and fulfilment, an "exhausted"
footnote to the great tradition of the autobiographical-novel-aboutboy-who-will-grow-up-to-be-a-writer, such as A Portrait of the
Artist as a Young Man and Sons and Lovers. It is intended to reach
208
METAFICTION
its climax in a boardwalk funhouse, where Ambrose is to get lost -
though in what circumstances, and with what outcome, the author
is never able to decide.
In the passage quoted here, the questioning of conventional
fictional representation is artfully doubled. First, Ambrose's
romantic longings are rendered through a parody of Hollywood's
wish-fulfilment fantasies: "In the movies he'd meet a beautiful
young girl in the funhouse; they'd have hairs-breadth escapes from
real dangers .. . their dialogue lines would match up ... " This is
obviously bad art, in contrast to which the rendering of Ambrose's
actual frustrated, tongue-tied, alienated existence seems realistically authentic. But then that representation is undermined by a
typical metafictional move - what Erving Goffman has called
"breaking frame", an effect also illustrated by the passage from
Margaret Drabble's novel. The authorial voice abruptly intervenes
to comment that Ambrose's situation is either too familiar or too
deviant to be worth describing, which is as if a movie actor were to
turn to the camera suddenly and say, "This is a lousy script." In
the manner of Tristram Shandy, the voice of a carping critic is
heard, attacking the whole project: 'Is anything more tiresome, in
fiction, than the problems of sensitive adolescents?" The author
seems to be suddenly losing faith in his own story, and cannot even
summon up the energy to finish the sentence in which he confesses
that it is too long and rambling.
Writers of course often lose faith in what they are doing, but do
not normally admit this in their texts. To do so is to acknowledge
failure - but also tacitly to claim such failure as more interesting
and more truthful than conventional "success". Kurt Vonnegut
begins his Slaughterhouse Frvey a novel as remarkable for its
stunning frame-breaking effects as for its imaginative use of timeshift (see Section 16), by confessing: "I would hate to tell you what
this lousy little book cost me in money and anxiety and time." In
his first chapter he describes the difficulty of writing about an
event like the destruction of Dresden, and says, addressing the
man who commissioned it, "It is so short and jumbled and jangled,
Sam, because there is nothing intelligent to say about a massacre."
The personal experience on which it is based was so traumatic and
209
METAFICTION
so painful to return to that Vonnegut compares his fate to that of
Lot's wife in the Old Testament, who showed her human nature
by looking back upon the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah but
was punished by being turned into a pillar of salt.
Fve finished my war book now. The next one I write is going to
be fun.
This one is a failure, and it had to be, since it was written by a
pillar of salt.
In fact, so far from being a failure, Slaughterhouse Five is Vonnegut's
masterpiece, and one of the most memorable novels of the postwar
period in English.
210
47 The Uncanny
The contest was brief. I was frantic with every species of wild
excitement, and felt within my single arm the energy and power
of a multitude. In a few seconds I forced him by sheer strength
against the wainscoting, and thus, getting him at mercy, plunged
my sword, with brute ferocity, repeatedly through and through
his bosom.
At that instant some person tried the latch of the door. I
hastened to prevent an intrusion, and then immediately
returned to my dying antagonist. But what human language can
adequately portray that astonishment, that horror which possessed me at the spectacle then presented to view? The brief
moment in which I averted my eyes had been sufficient to
produce, apparently, a material change in the arrangements at
the upper or farther end of the room. A large mirror, - so at
first it seemed to me in my confusion - now stood where none
had been perceptible before; and, as I stepped up to it in
extremity of terror, mine own image, but with features all pale
and dabbled in blood, advanced to meet me with a feeble and
tottering gait.
Thus it appeared, I say, but was not. It was my antagonist - it
was Wilson, who then stood before me in the agonies of his
dissolution. His mask and cloak lay, where he had thrown them,
upon the floor. Not a thread in all his raiment - not a Une in all
the marked and singular lineaments of his face which was not,
even in the most absolute identity, mine own!
EDGAR ALLAN POE "William Wilson" (1839)
211
T HE FRENCH (originally Bulgarian) structuralist critic Tzvetan
Todorov has proposed that tales of the supernatural divide into
three categories: the marvellous, in which no rational explanation
of the supernatural phenomena is possible; the uncanny, in which
it is; and the fantastic, in which the narrative hesitates undecidably
between a natural and a supernatural explanation.
An example of the fantastic in this sense is Henry James's
famous ghost story The Turn of the Screw. A young woman is
appointed governess to two young orphaned children in an isolated
country house, and sees figures who apparently resemble a former
governess and the villainous manservant who seduced her, both
now dead. She is convinced that these evil spirits have a hold over
the young children in her care, from which she seeks to free them.
In the climax she struggles with the male ghost for the possession
of Miles's soul, and the boy dies: "his little heart, dispossessed,
had stopped." The story (which is narrated by the governess) can
be, and has been, read in two different ways, corresponding to
Todorov's "marvellous" and "uncanny": either the ghosts are
"real", and the governess is involved in a heroic struggle against
supernatural evil, or they are projections of her own neuroses and
sexual hang-ups, with which she frightens the little boy in her
charge literally to death. Critics have vainly tried to prove the
correctness of one or other of these readings. The point of the
story is that everything in it is capable of a double interpretation,
thus rendering it impervious to the reader's scepticism.
Todorov's typology is a useful provocation to thought on the
subject, though his nomenclature (le merveilleux, Vétrange, le fantastique) is confusing when translated into English, in which "the
fantastic" is usually in unambiguous opposition to "the real", and
"the uncanny" seems a more appropriate term with which to
characterize a story like The Turn of the Screw. One can also quibble
about its application. Todorov himself is obliged to concede that
there are borderline works which must be categorized as "fantasticuncanny" or "fantastic-marvellous". Edgar Allan Poe's "William
Wilson" is such a work. Though Todorov reads it as an allegory or
parable of an uneasy conscience, therefore "uncanny" in his own
2 1 2
THE UNCANNY
terms, it contains that element of ambiguity which he sees as
essential to the fantastic.
"William Wilson" is a Doppelgànger story. The eponymous
narrator, who admits his own depravity at the outset, describes his
first boarding-school as a quaint old building in which "it was
difficult, at any given time, to say with certainty upon which of its
two stories one happened to be" (the pun is surely intended).
There he had a rival who bore the same name, was admitted to the
school on the same day, had the same birthday, and bore a close
physical resemblance to the narrator, which he exploited by
satirically mimicking the latter's behaviour. The only respect in
which this double differs from the narrator is in being unable to
speak above a whisper.
Wilson graduates to Eton, and then Oxford, plunging deeper
and deeper into dissipation. Whenever he commits some particularly heinous act, a man invariably turns up dressed in identical
clothes, concealing his face, but hissing "William Wilson" in an
unmistakable whisper. Exposed by his double for cheating at cards,
Wilson flees abroad, but everywhere he is pursued by the Doppelgànger. "Again and again, in secret communion with my own spirit,
I would demand the questions 'Who is he? - whence came he? -
and what are his objects?'" In Venice, Wilson is just about to keep
an adulterous assignation when he feels "a light hand placed upon
my shoulder, and that ever-remembered, low, damnable whisper
within my ear." Beside himself with rage, Wilson attacks his
tormentor with his sword.
Obviously one can explain the double as Wilson's hallucinatory
externalization of his own conscience or better self, and there are
several clues to this effect in the text. For example, Wilson says
that his schoolboy double had a "moral sense .. . far keener than
my own," and nobody but himself seems to be struck by the
physical resemblance between them. But the story would not have
its haunting and suggestive power if it did not invest the uncanny
phenomenon with a credible concreteness. The climax of the novel
is particularly artful in its ambiguous reference to the mirror. From
a rational standpoint, we might hypothesize that, in a delirium of
guilt and self-hatred, Wilson has mistaken his own mirror-image
2 13
THE UNCANNY
for his double, attacked it and mutilated himself in the process;
but from Wilson's point of view it seems that the reverse has
happened - what he at first takes to be a reflection of himself turns
out to be the bleeding, dying figure of his double.
Classic tales of the uncanny invariably use "I" narrators, and
imitate documentary forms of discourse like confessions, letters
and depositions to make the events more credible. (Compare Mary
Shelley's Frankenstein, and Robert Louis Stevenson's Drjekyll and
Mr Hyde.) And these narrators tend to write in a conventionally
"literary" style which in another context one might find tiresomely
cliché-ridden: for example, "wild excitement", "power of a multitude", "sheer strength", "brute ferocity" in the first paragraph of
this extract. The whole Gothic-horror tradition to which Poe
belongs, and to which he gave a powerful impetus, is replete with
good-bad writing of this kind. The predictability of the rhetoric,
its very lack of originality, guarantees the reliability of the narrator
and makes his uncanny experience more believable.
214
48 Narrative Structure
THE HAND
I smacked my little boy. My anger was powerful. Like justice.
Then I discovered no feeling in the hand. I said, "Listen, I want
to explain the complexities to you." I spoke with seriousness
and care, particularly of fathers. He asked, when I finished, if I
wanted him to forgive me. I said yes. He said no. Like trumps.
ALL RIGHT
"I don't mind variations," she said, "but this feels wrong." I
said, "It feels all right to me." She said, "To you, wrong is right."
I said, "I didn't say right, I said all right." "Big difference," she
said. I said, "Yes, I'm critical. My mind never stops. To me
almost everything is always wrong. My standard is pleasure. To
me, this is all right." She said, "To me it stinks." I said, "What
do you like?" She said, "Like I don't like. I'm not interested in
being superior to my sensations. I won't live long enough for all
right."
MA
I said, "Ma, do you know what happened?" She said, "Oh, my
God."
LEONARD MICHAELS / Would Have Saved Them
If I Could (1975)
215
T HE STRUCTURE of a narrative is like the framework of girders that
holds up a modern high-rise building: you can't see it, but it
determines the edifice's shape and character. The effects of a
novel's structure, however, are experienced not in space but over
time - often quite a long time. Henry Fielding's Tom Jones, for
instance, which Coleridge thought had one of the three greatest
plots in literature (the other two were both plays, Oedipus Rex and
Ben Jonson's The Alchemist), runs to nearly 900 pages in the
Penguin edition. As previously noted (Section 36) it has 198
Chapters, divided into eighteen Books, the first six of which are
set in the country, the next six on the road, and the final six in
London. Exactly in the middle of the novel most of the major
characters pass through the same inn, but without meeting in
combinations which would bring the story to a premature conclusion. The novel is packed with surprises, enigmas and suspense,
and ends with a classic Reversal and Discovery.
It is impossible to illustrate the operation of such a complex plot
with a short quotation, but the work of the American writer
Leonard Michaels, who writes some of the shortest stories I know,
allows us to examine the process in microcosm. I have cheated a
little in as much as the pieces reproduced here were not designed
to stand entirely alone, but belong to a cluster of short narratives,
collectively entitled "Eating Out", some of which are interrelated
by being concerned with the same character or characters. "Ma",
for instance, is one of a series of dialogue-stories about the narrator
and his mother. The whole sequence amounts to more than the
sum of its parts. Nevertheless, each part is a self-contained
narrative, with its own title. Even out of context the meaning of
"Ma" is clear enough: the Jewish mother always expects the worst.
Perhaps this text hovers on the boundary between the story and
the joke. But there is no generic ambiguity about "The Hand",
which conforms to the classic notion of narrative unity. It has a
beginning, a middle and an end as defined by Aristotle: a beginning
is what requires nothing to precede it, an end is what requires
nothing to follow it, and a middle needs something both before
and after it.
The beginning of "The Hand" consists of its first three sen216
NARRATIVE STRUCTURE
tences, describing the narrator's punishment of his son. We do not
need to know what behaviour has provoked this act. The first
sentence, "I smacked my little boy" establishes a familiar domestic
context. The emphasis is all on the narrator's emotions."My anger
was powerful. Like justice." The verbless sentence is a kind of
afterthought, justifying the relief of tension, the exercise of power.
The middle of the story describes the waning of the narrator's
confidence in his own righteousness, and his attempt to justify his
behaviour to his son. First there is a kind of psychosomatic
symptom: "Then I discovered no feeling in the hand." The hand
is both a synecdoche and a metaphor for the "unfeeling" parent. "I
said, 'Listen, I want to explain the complexities to you.'" Structurally, the whole story turns on the axis of this line, the only direct
speech in it. Formally it favours the narrator, because direct speech
always conveys a stronger sense of the speaker's presence than
reported speech. But the use of the adult word, "complexities", to
a little boy gives the game away. In spite of his professed anxiety to
communicate with his son ("I spoke with seriousness and care,
particularly of fathers") the narrator is wrestling with his own
conscience.
The ending contains a neat double reversal. First, the little boy
proves to have a penetrating insight into his father's state of mind:
"He asked me, when I finished, if I wanted him to forgive me."
Secondly the normal power relations between father and son are
reversed: "I said yes. He said no." The symmetry of these
sentences echoes the symmetry of the plot. The narrator's "Like
trumps" ruefully acknowledges defeat.
Plot has been defined by a modern disciple of Aristotle (R. S.
Crane) as "a completed process of change". A good deal of modern
fiction has, however, avoided the kind of closure implied in the
word "completed" and has focused on states of being in which
change is minimal. "All Right" is a case in point. It has a much
more elusive narrative structure than "The Hand" - less obvious,
less easy to follow, the divisions between beginning, middle, and
end less certain. It uses techniques I discussed earlier under the
headings of "Staying on the Surface" and "Implication", consisting
almost entirely of dialogue, and withholding information about the
217
NARRATIVE STRUCTURE
characters' private thoughts and motives. We infer that the couple
are engaged in some unconventional sexual act, but it is impossible
and unnecessary to know what exactly it is. The beginning perhaps
consists of the woman's statement of her uneasiness; the middle of
the narrator's self-justification and the woman's reiteration of her
displeasure ("To me it stinks"); and the ending of her refusal to
play the game of sexual dilettantism. But the story lacks the
reassuring movement of "The Hand" towards the narrator's
moment of truth. It is not clear why he is telling us this story, for
he reports the woman's harsh strictures on him without comment.
Whereas "The Hand" is instantly comprehensible, we have to reread "All Right" several times to make sense of it, sounding the
dialogue in our heads. ("She said, 'Like I don't like .. . I won't live
long enough for all right'") The text seems to be about deadlock
rather than discovery, and its unity owes more to its internal verbal
echoes, especially of the word "right" highlighted in the title, than
to its narrative structure. In that respect it offers itself as a kind of
prose poem - either that, or a tantalizing fragment of some longer
story.
218
49 Aporia
Where now? Who now? When now? Unquestioning. I, say I.
Unbelieving. Questions, hypotheses, call them that. Keep going,
going on, call that going, call that on. Can it be that one day, off
it goes on, that one day I simply stayed in, in where, instead of
going out, in the old way, out to spend day and night as far away
as possible, it wasn't far. Perhaps that is how it began. You think
you are simply resting, the better to act when the time comes,
or for no reason, and you soon find yourself powerless ever to
do anything again. No matter how it happened. It, say it, not
knowing what. Perhaps I simply assented at last to an old thing.
But I did nothing. I seem to speak, it is not I, about me, it is not
about me. These few general remarks to begin with. What am I
to do, what shall I do, what should I do, in my situation, how
proceed? By aporia pure and simple? Or by affirmations and
negations invalidated as uttered, or sooner or later? Generally
speaking. There must be other shifts. Otherwise it would be
quite hopeless. But it is quite hopeless. I should mention before
going any further, any further on, that I say aporia without
knowing what it means.
SAMUEL BECKETT The Unnamable (1959)
APORIA is a Greek word meaning "difficulty, being at a loss",
literally, "a pathless path", a track that gives out. In classical
rhetoric it denotes real or pretended doubt about an issue,
uncertainty as to how to proceed in a discourse. Hamlet's "To be
or not to be" soliloquy is perhaps the best-known example in our
literature. In fiction, especially in texts that are framed by a
storytelling situation, aporia is a favourite device of narrators to
219
APORIA
arouse curiosity in their audience, or to emphasize the extraordinary nature of the story they are telling. It is often combined with
another figure of rhetoric, "aposiopesis", the incomplete sentence
or unfinished utterance, usually indicated on the page by a trail of
dots .. . In Conrad's Heart of Darkness, for instance, Marlow
frequently breaks off his narrative in this way:
"It seems to me that I am trying to tell you a dream - making a
vain attempt, because no relation of a dream can convey the
dream-sensation, that commingling of absurdity, surprise, and
bewilderment in a tremor of struggling revolt, that notion of
being captured by the incredible which is of the very essence of
dreams ..."
He was silent for a while.
"... No it is impossible; it is impossible to convey the lifesensation of any given epoch of one's existence - that which
makes its truth, its meaning - its subtle and penetrating essence.
It is impossible. We live, as we dream - alone..."
In metafictional narratives like "Lost in the Funhouse" or The
French Lieutenants Woman aporia becomes a structural principal,
as the authorial narrator wrestles with the insoluble problems of
adequately representing life in art, or confesses his own hesitation
about how to dispose of his fictional characters. In Chapter 55 of
The French Lieutenants Woman, for instance, when Charles, having
discovered that Sarah has disappeared from the hotel in Exeter, is
travelling back to London to begin his search for her, the authorial
narrator intrudes into the narrative as a rudely staring stranger in
Charles's railway compartment:
Now the question I am asking, as I stare at Charles, is .. . what
the devil am I going to do with you? I have already thought of
ending Charles's career here and now; of leaving him for eternity
on his way to London. But the conventions of Victorian fiction
allow, allowed no place for the open, the inconclusive ending;
and I preached earlier of the freedom characters must be given.
My problem is simple - what Charles wants is clear? It is indeed.
But what the protagonist wants is not so clear; and I am not at all
sure where she is at the moment.
220
APORIA
In the fiction of Samuel Beckett, especially his later work, aporia is
endemic. The Unnamable (originally published in French, as L'Innommable, in 1952) is a stream-of-consciousness novel, but not like
Joyce's Ulysses, where the sights, sounds, smells and human bustle
of Dublin are evoked for us, in vivid specificity, through the senseimpressions, thoughts and memories of the chief characters. All
we have is a narrative voice talking to itself, or transcribing its own
thoughts as they occur, longing for extinction and silence, but
condemned to go on narrating, though it has no story worth telling,
and is certain of nothing, not even of its own position in space and
time.
The anonymous narrator is sitting in some vague, murky space,
whose limits he can neither see nor touch, while dimly perceived
figures, some of whom seem to be characters from Beckett's
previous novels, move round him - or could it be that he is moving
round them? He knows his eyes are open "because of the tears that
fall from them unceasingly." Where is he? It could be hell. It could
be senility. It could be the mind of a writer who has to go on
writing though he has nothing to say, because there is nothing
worth saying any longer about the human condition. Or are all
these states essentially one and the same? The Unnamable seems to
fit Roland Barthes' description of "zero degree writing", in which
"literature is vanquished, the problematics of mankind is
uncovered and presented without elaboration, the writer becomes
irretrievably honest."
The discourse accretes rather than proceeds, by a kind of selfcancellation, one step forwards and one step back, contradictory
statements separated only by commas, without the usual adversative
but or however. "Keep going, going on," the narrator urges himself,
and immediately adds the derisive rejoinder, "call that going, call
that on?" How did he come to be where he is? "Can it be that one
day .. . I simply stayed in." Immediately another question is raised:
"in where"? He drops the original question: "No matter how it
happened." But even this negative gesture presumes too much: "It,
say it, not knowing what."
Beckett was a deconstructionist avant la lettre. "I seem to speak,
it is not I, about me, it is not about me." That sentence attacks the
221
APORIA
foundations of the long humanist tradition of autobiographical
fiction and fictional autobiography, from Robinson Crusoe through
Great Expectations to A La Recherche du temps perdu, with its
consoling promise of achieving self-knowledge. Beckett anticipated
Derrida's notion of the inevitable "differance" (sic) of verbal discourse: the "I" that speaks always being different from the "I" that
is spoken of, the precise fitting of language to reality always being
deferred. "These few general remarks to begin with." That usually
bland formula is blackly comic in this epistemological vacuum.
How shall the narrator proceed,
 aby affirmations and negations
invalidated as uttered" (i.e., self-contradiction) or "By aporia pure
and simple?" Aporia is a favourite trope of deconstructionist critics,
because it epitomizes the way in which all texts undermine their
own claims to a determinate meaning; but the narrator's later
admission, "that I say aporia without knowing what it means," is a
trumping of aporia.
"There must be other shifts. Otherwise it would be quite
hopeless. But it is quite hopeless." What is extraordinary is that
this bleakly pessimistic and relentlessly sceptical text is not deeply
depressing to read, but on the contrary funny, affecting, and in a
surprising way affirmative of the survival of the human spirit in
extremis. Its famous last words are: "you must go on, I can't go on,
I'll go on."
222
50 Ending
The anxiety, which in this state of their attachment must be the
portion of Henry and Catherine, and of all who loved either, as to
its final event, can hardly extend, I fear, to the bosom of my
readers, who will see in the tell-tale compression of the pages
before them, that we are all hastening together to perfect felicity.
JANE AUSTEN Northanger Abbey (1818)
Ralph looked at him dumbly. For a moment he had a fleeting
picture of the strange glamour that had once invested the
beaches. But the island was scorched up like dead wood -
Simon was dead - and Jack had .. . The tears began to flow and
sobs shook him. He gave himself up to them now for the first
time on the island; great, shuddering spasms of grief that
seemed to wrench his whole body. His voice rose under the
black smoke before the burning wreckage of the island; and
infected by that emotion, the other little boys began to shake
and sob too. And in the middle of them, with filthy body, matted
hair, and unwiped nose, Ralph wept for the end of innocence,
the darkness of man's heart, and the fall through the air of the
true, wise friend called Piggy.
The officer, surrounded by these noises, was moved and a
little embarrassed. He turned away to give them time to pull
themselves together; and waited, allowing his eyes to rest on the
trim cruiser in the distance.
WILLIAM GOLDING Lord ofthe Flies (1954)
223
"CONCLUSIONS are the weak points of most authors," George Eliot
remarked, "but some of the fault lies in the very nature of a
conclusion, which is at best a negation." To Victorian novelists
endings were apt to be particularly troublesome, because they were
always under pressure from readers and publishers to provide a
happy one. The last chapter was known in the trade as the "windup", which Henry James sarcastically described as "a distribution
at the last of prizes, pensions, husbands, wives, babies, millions,
appended paragraphs and cheerful remarks." James himself
pioneered the "open" ending characteristic of modern fiction,
often stopping the novel in the middle of a conversation, leaving a
phrase hanging resonantly, but ambiguously, in the air: "'Then
there we are,' said Strether." (The Ambassadors)
As Jane Austen pointed out in a metafictional aside in Northanger
Abbey, a novelist cannot conceal the timing of the end of the story
(as a dramatist or film-maker can, for instance) because of the telltale compression of the pages. When John Fowles provides a
mock-Victorian wind-up to The French Lieutenant's Woman (in
which Charles settles down happily with Ernestina) we are not
deceived, for a quarter of the book remains to be read. Going on
with the story of Charles's quest for Sarah, Fowles offers us two
more alternative endings - one that ends happily for the hero, and
the other unhappily. He invites us to choose between them, but
tacitly encourages us to see the second as more authentic, not just
because it is sadder, but because it is more open, with the sense of
life going on into an uncertain future.
Perhaps we should distinguish between the end of a novel's story
- the resolution W deliberate non-resolution of the narrative
questions it has raised in the minds of its readers - and the last
page or two of the text, which often act as a kind of epilogue or
postscript, a gentle deceleration of the discourse as it draws to a
halt. But this scarcely applies to the novels of Sir William Golding,
whose last pages have a way of throwing everything that has gone
before into a new and surprising light. Pincher Martin (1956), for
instance, seems to be the story of a torpedoed sailor's desperate
and finally unsuccessful struggle to survive on a bare rock in the
middle of the Atlantic, but the final chapter reveals that he died
224
ENDING
with his boots on - so the whole narrative must be reinterpreted as
some kind of drowning vision or purgatorial experience after death.
The ending of The Paper Men (1984) reserves its final punch till
the narrator's very last word, which is interrupted by a bullet:
"How the devil did Rick L. Tucker manage to get hold of a gu "
That kind of last-minute twist is generally more typical of the
short story than of the novel. Indeed one might say that the short
story is essentially "end-oriented", inasmuch as one begins a short
story in the expectation of soon reaching its conclusion, whereas
one embarks upon a novel with no very precise idea of when one
will finish it. We tend to read a short story in a single sitting, drawn
along by the magnetic power of its anticipated conclusion; whereas
we pick up and put down a novel at irregular intervals, and may be
positively sorry to come to the end of it. Novelists of old used to
exploit this sentimental bond formed between the reader and the
novel during the reading experience. Fielding, for instance begins
the last Book of Tom Jones with "A Farewell to the Reader":
We are now, reader, arrived at the last stage of our long journey.
As we have therefore, travelled together through so many pages,
let us behave to one another like fellow-travellers, in a stage
coach, who have passed several days in the company of each
other; and who, notwithstanding any bickerings or little animosities which may have occurred on the road, generally make up at
last, and mount, for the last time, into their vehicle with
cheerfulness and good humour; since after this one stage, it may
possibly happen to us, as it commonly happens to them, never to
meet more.
The conclusion of The Lord of the Flies could easily have been a
comfortable and reassuring one, because it introduces an adult
perspective in the last few pages of what, up to that point, has been
a "boys' story", a Coral Island-style adventure, that goes horribly
wrong. A party of British schoolboys, who crash-land on a tropical
island in unspecified circumstances (though there are hints of a
war), rapidly revert to savagery and superstition. Freed from the
restraints of civilized, adult society, and subject to hunger, loneliness and fear, the behaviour of the playground degenerates into
225
ENDING
tribal violence. Two boys die, and the hero, Ralph, is fleeing for
his life from a pack of bloodthirsty pursuers wielding wooden
spears, and a deliberately started forest fire, when he runs fulltilt into a naval officer who has just landed on the beach, his
ship alerted by the smoke. "Fun and games," the officer
comments, regarding the boys with their makeshift weapons and
warpaint.
For the reader, the apparition of the officer is almost as startling,
and almost as great a relief, as it is for Ralph. We have been so
absorbed in the story, and so involved in Ralph's plight, that we
have forgotten that he and his cruel enemies are prepubescent
boys. Suddenly, through the officer's eyes, we see them for what
they really are, a bunch of dirty and unkempt children. But Golding
does not allow this effect to undermine the essential truth of what
has gone before, or make the restoration of "normality" into a
comforting happy ending. The naval officer will never comprehend
the experience that Ralph (and vicariously the reader) has undergone, eloquently recapitulated in the penultimate paragraph: "the
end of innocence, the darkness of man's heart, and the fall through
the air of the true, wise friend called Piggy." He will never
understand why Ralph's sobbing spreads infectiously through the
other boys. "He turned away, to give them time to pull themselves
together; and waited, allowing his eyes to rest on the trim cruiser
in the distance." The last sentence of any story acquires a certain
resonance merely by virtue of being the last, but this one is
particularly rich in irony. The adult's gaze at the "trim cruiser"
implies complacency, evasion of the truth, and complicity in an
institutionalized form of violence - modern warfare - that is
equivalent to, as well as different from, the primitive violence of
the castaway boys.
Readers acquainted with my Changing Places may recall that the
passage from Northanger Abbey at the head of this section is cited
by Philip Swallow and quoted by Morris Zapp on the last page of
that novel. Philip invokes it to illustrate an important difference
between an audience's experience of the end of a film, and a
reader's experience of the end of a novel:
226
ENDING
"That's something the novelist can't help giving away, isn't it,
that his novel is shortly coming to an end? .. . he can't disguise
the tell-tale compression of the pages .. . As you're reading,
you're aware that there's only a page or two left in the book, and
you get ready to close it. But with a film there's no way of telling,
especially nowadays, when films are much more loosely structured, much more ambivalent, than they used to be. There's no
way of telling which frame is going to be the last. The film is
going along, just as life goes along, people are behaving, doing
things, drinking, talking, and we're watching them, and at any
point the director chooses, without warning, without anything
being resolved, or explained, or wound up, it can just... end."
At this point in the book, Philip is represented as a character in a
filmscript, and immediately after his speech the novel ends, thus:
PHILIP shrugs. The camera stops, freezing him in mid-gesture.
THE END
I ended the novel in this fashion for several, interrelated reasons.
In one aspect, it is a sexual comedy of "long-range wifeswapping":
the story concerns the fortunes of two academics, one British and
one American, who, exchanging jobs in 1969, have affairs with
each other's wives. But the two principal characters exchange
much else in the course of the story - values, attitudes, language -
and almost every incident in one location has its analogue or
mirror-image in the other. Developing this highly symmetrical and
perhaps predictable plot, I felt the need to provide some variety
and surprise for the reader on another level of the text, and
accordingly wrote each chapter in a different style or format. The
first shift is comparatively inconspicuous - from present-tense
narration in Chapter One to past-tense narration in Chapter Two.
But the third chapter is in epistolary form, and the fourth consists
of extracts from newspapers and other documents the characters
are supposed to be reading. The fifth chapter is conventional in
style, but deviates from the cross-cutting pattern of the previous
chapters, presenting the interconnected experiences of the two
main characters in consecutive chunks.
227
ENDING
As the novel progressed I became increasingly conscious of the
problem of how to end it in a way which would be satisfying on
both the formal and the narrative levels. As regards the former, it
was obvious that the final chapter must exhibit the most striking
and surprising shift in narrative form, or risk being an aesthetic
anticlimax. As regards the narrative level, I found myself unwilling
to resolve the wife-swapping plot, partly because that would mean
also resolving the cultural plot. A decision by Philip to stick with
Désirée Zapp, for instance, would also entail a decision by him to
stay in America or a willingness on her part to settle in England,
and so on. I did not want to have to decide, as implied author, in
favour of this partnership or that, this culture or that. But how
could I "get away with" an ending of radical indeterminacy for a
plot that had up till then been as regular and symmetrical in
structure as a quadrille?
The idea of writing the last chapter (which is called "Ending")
in the form of a filmscript seemed to solve all these problems at a
stroke. First of all, such a format satisfied the need for a climactic
deviation from "normal" fictional discourse. Secondly it freed me,
as implied author, from the obligation to pass judgment on, or to
arbitrate between, the claims of the four main characters, since
there is no textual trace of the author's voice in a filmscript,
consisting as it does of dialogue and impersonal, objective descriptions of the characters' outward behaviour. Philip, Désirée, Morris
and Hilary meet in New York, halfway between the West Coast of
America and the West Midlands of England, to discuss their
marital problems, and in the course of a few days they discuss
every possible resolution of the story - each couple to divorce and
cross-marry, each couple to reunite, each couple to separate but
not remarry, etc. etc. - but without reaching any conclusion. By
having Philip draw attention to the fact that films are more
amenable to unresolved endings than novels, while being represented as a character in a film inside a novel, I thought I had found
a way to justify, by a kind of metafictional joke, my own refusal to
resolve the story ofChanging Places. In fact, so strong- atavistically
strong - is the human desire for certainty, resolution and closure,
that not all readers were satisfied by this ending, and some have
228
ENDING
complained to me that they felt cheated by it. But it satisfied me
(and had the incidental bonus that when I decided to make further
use of the principal characters in a subsequent novel, Small World,
I had a free hand in developing their life-histories).
The point of this anecdote is, however, not to defend the ending
of Changing Places, but to demonstrate that deciding how to handle
it involved many other aspects of the novel, aspects that I have
discussed elsewhere in this book under various headings. For
example: (i) Point of View (the film-scenario form obviated the
need to select a point of view, with the privileging of the p.o.v.
character that is inevitably entailed) (2) Suspense (postponing till
the very end an answer to the narrative question, how will the
double adultery plot be resolved?) (3) Surprise (refusing to answer
that question) (4) Intertextuality (the allusion to Jane Austen, which
is natural and appropriate in that both Philip Swallow and Morris
Zapp have specialized in the analysis of her work) (5) Staying on
the Surface (another effect of the film-scenario format) (6) Titles
and Chapters (the punning title of the novel - places that change,
places where one changes, positions that are exchanged - suggested a series of cognate chapter headings - "Flying", "Settling",
"Corresponding" etc. and finally "Ending", which is noun, participle and gerund: this is the end of the book, this is how it ends,
this is how I am ending it) (7) Metafiction (the joke of the last
lines is on the reader and his/her expectations, but also connects
with a running metafictional joke about a how-to-do-it book called
Let's Write a Novel, which Morris Zapp finds in Philip Swallow's
office, and which provides a sardonic commentary on the novel's
own shifting techniques. "Every novel must tell a story," it begins.
"And there are three types of story, the story that ends happily,
the story that ends unhappily, and the story that ends neither
happily nor unhappily, or, in other words, doesn't really end at
all.")
I could, without too much difficulty, discuss this ending under
other headings, such as Defamiliarization, Repetition, The Experimental Novel, The Comic Novel, Epiphany, Coincidence, Irony,
Motivation, Ideas, and Aporia, but I will not labour the point -
which is, simply, that decisions about particular aspects or
229
ENDING
components of a novel are never taken in isolation, but affect, and
are affected by, all its other aspects and components. A novel is a
Gestalt, a German word for which there is no exact English
equivalent, defined in my dictionary as "a perceptual pattern or
structure possessing qualities as a whole that cannot be described
merely as a sum of its parts."
THE END
230
Bibliography
of primary sources
This bibliography lists, alphabetically by author, the novels and
short stories from which illustrative passages are quoted, either at
the head of each section or in the body of the text. The following
information is given: (i) Date of first publication. (2) In the case of
modern texts, the place and publisher of first publication in the
UK and USA. (3) Imprints of paperback editions (abbreviated as
"pb") available in UK and USA at the time of compilation (May
1992).
Abish, Walter: Alphabetical Africa. New York, New Directions, 1974.
US pb New Directions.
Amis, Kingsley: Lucky Jim. London, Gollancz, 1954. New York,
Doubleday, 1954. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
The Folks that Live on the Hill. London, Hutchinson, 1990. New
York, Summit, 1990. UK pb Penguin.
Amis, Martin: Money. London, Cape, 1984. New York, Viking,
1985. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Austen, Jane: Emma. 1816. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Northanger Abbey. 1818. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Auster, Paul: City of Glass. London, Faber & Faber, 1987 (in The
New York Trilogy). Los Angeles, Sun & Moon Press, 1985. UK pb
Faber; US pb Penguin.
Barth, John: Lost in the Funhouse. London, Seeker & Warburg, 1969.
New York, Doubleday, 1968. US pb Anchor.
Barthelme, Donald: "Will You Tell Me?" in Come Back, Dr Caligari,
London, Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1966. Boston, Little Brown, 1964.
US pb Little Brown.
Beckett, Samuel: Murphy. London, Routledge, 1938. New York,
Grove Press, 1938. UK pb Calder; US pb Grove Weidenfeld.
The Unnamable. [Paris, 1952, as L Innommable] London, Calder,
1959. New York, Grove Press, 1958. UK pb Calder; US pb Grove
Weidenfeld.
Bennett, Arnold: The Old Wives'Tale. 1908. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
231
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bradbury, Malcolm: The History Man. London, Seeker & Warburg,
1975. Boston, Houghton Mifflin, 1976. UK pb Vintage; US pb
Penguin.
Brontë, Charlotte: Villette. 1854. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Bunyan, John: The Pilgrim's Progress. 1678. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Burgess, Anthony: A Clockwork Orange. London, Heinemann, 1962.
New York, Norton, 1963. UK pb Penguin; US pb Bal Ian tine.
Butler, Samuel: Erewhon. 1872. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Carlyle, Thomas: The French Revolution. 1837. UK pb Oxford
World's Classics; US pb Oxford World's Classics.
Carrington, Leonora: The Hearing Trumpet. London, Routledge &
Kegan Paul, 1977. New York, St Martin's, 1976. UK pb Virago;
US pb City Lights Books.
Conrad, Joseph: Heart of Darkness. 1902. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
The Shadow-Line - A Confession. 1917. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Cooper, William. Scenes from Provincial Life. London, Cape,
1950. New York NAL/Dutton, 1984. UK pb Methuen; US pb
Avon.
Dickens, Charles: Bleak House. 1853. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Hard Times. 1854. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Oliver Twist. 1837-8. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Drabble, Margaret: The Realms of Gold. London, Weidenfeld &
Nicolson, 1975. New York, Knopf, 1975. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Eliot, George: Adam Bede. 1859. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Middlemarch. 1871-2. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Fielding, Henry: Joseph Andrews. 1742. UKpb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Tom Jones. 1749. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Fitzgerald, F. Scott: Tender is the Night. London, Chatto & Windus,
1934. New York, Scribner's, 1934. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Macmillan.
Ford, Ford Madox: The Good Soldier. 1915. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Random House.
Forster, E. M.: Howards End. London, Arnold, 1910. New York,
Putnam, 1911. UK pb Penguin; US pb Bantam.
Fowles,John: The French Lieutenants Woman. London, Cape, 1969.
Boston, Little Brown, 1969. UK pb Pan; US pb NAL/Dutton.
232
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Frayn, Michael: The Trick of It. London, Viking, 1989. New York,
Viking, 1990. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Gissing, George: New Grub Street. 1891. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Golding, William: Lord of the Flies. London, Faber & Faber, 1954.
New York, Coward-McCann, 1955. UK pb Faber; US pb Putnam
Perigee.
Green, Henry: Living. London, Hogarth Press, 1929. St Clair
Shores, Mich., Scholarly, 1971. UK pb Picador; US pb Penguin.
Greene, Graham: A Burnt-out Case. London, Heinemann, 1961.
New York, Viking, 1961. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
The Heart of the Matter. London, Heinemann, 1948. New York,
Viking 1948. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Hardy, Thomas: A Pair of Blue Eyes. 1873. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Heller, Joseph: Good As Gold. London, Cape, 1979. New York,
Simon & Schuster, 1979. US pb Dell.
Hemingway, Ernest. "In Another Country" in Men Without Women.
London, Cape, 1928. New York, Scribner's, 1927. UKpb
Panther; US pb Macmillan.
Isherwood, Christopher: Goodbye to Berlin. London, Hogarth Press,
1939. New York, Random House, 1939. UK pb Mandarin; US pb
New Directions (in The Berlin Stories).
Ishiguro, Kazuo: The Remains of the Day. London, Faber & Faber,
1989. New York, Knopf, 1989. UK pb Faber; US pb Vintage.
James, Henry: The Ambassadors. 1903. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
What Maisie Knew. 1897. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Joyce, James: A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. London, Egoist,
1916. New York, Huebsch, 1916. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
"Eveline", in Dubliners. London, Grant Richards 1914. New York,
Modern Library 1926. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Ulysses. [Paris, Shakespeare & Co, 1922] London, Bodley Head,
1937. New York, Random House, 1934. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Random House.
Kipling, Rudyard: "Mrs Bathurst", in Traffics and Discoveries. 1904.
UK pb Penguin (Short Stories Vol 1); US pb. Penguin.
Kundera, Milan: The Book of Laughter and Forgetting, trans. Michael
Henry Heim. London, Faber & Faber, 1982. New York, Knopf,
1980. UK pb Faber; US pb Penguin.
Lawrence, D. H.: Women in Love. London, Seeker, 1921. New York,
Seltzer, 1921. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
233
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Lodge, David: Changing Places. London, Seeker & Warburg, 1975.
New York, Penguin Books, 1980. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
How Far Can You Go? London, Seeker & Warburg, 1980. New
York, Morrow, 1982 (As Souls and Bodies). UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin (Souls and Bodies).
Nice Work. London, Seeker & Warburg, 1988. New York, Viking,
1989. UK pb Penguin ; US pb Penguin.
Small World. London, Seeker & Warburg, 1984. New York,
Macmillan, 1985. UK pb Penguin ; US pb Warner.
Lyly, John: Eup hues: the Anatomy of Wit. 1578. US pb Saifer.
Michaels, Leonard: / Would Have Saved Them If I Could. New York,
Farrar, Strauss & Giroux, 1975. US pb (forthcoming, 1993)
Mercury.
Moore, Lorrie: "How To Be an Other Woman", in Self-Help.
London, Faber, 1985. New York, Knopf, 1985. UK pb Faber; US
pb Plume.
Nabokov, Vladimir: Lolita. [Paris, Olympia Press, 1955] London,
Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1959. New York, Putnam's, 1958. UK pb
Penguin; US pb Random.
Orwell, George: Nineteen Eighty-four. London, Seeker & Warburg,
1949. New York, Harcourt Brace, 1949. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Poe, Edgar Allan: "William Wilson" 1839 (in Burton's Gentlemen's
Magazine). UK pb Penguin (Complete Tales and Poems); US pb
Penguin (Fall of the House of Usher ($ Other Writings).
Salinger, J. D: The Catcher in the Rye. London, Hamish Hamilton,
1951. Boston, Little Brown, 1951. UKpb Penguin; US pb Litde
Brown.
Scott, Sir Walter: The Heart ofMidlothian. 1818. UKpb Oxford
World's Classics; US pb Oxford World's Classics.
Smollett, Tobias: The Adventures of Roderick Random. 1748. UKpb
Oxford World's Classics; US pb Oxford World's Classics.
Spark, Muriel: The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. London, Macmillan,
1961. New York, The New Yorker, 1961. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
Sterne, Laurence: The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gent.
1759-67. UK pb Penguin; US pb Penguin.
Thackeray, William Makepeace: Vanity Fair. 1848. UK pb Penguin;
US pb Penguin.
Twain, Mark: Huckleberry Finn. 1884. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Penguin.
234
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Updike, John: Rabbit Run. London, Deutsch, 1961. New York,
Knopf, i960. UK pb Penguin; US pb Fawcett.
Vonnegut, Kurt: Slaughterhouse Five. London, Cape, 1970. New
York, Delacorte, 1969. UK pb Vintage; US pb Dell.
Waugh, Evelyn: A Handful of Dust. London, Chapman & Hall, 1934.
New York, Farrar & Rinehart, 1934. UK pb Penguin; US pb
Little Brown.
Decline and Fall. London, Chapman & Hall, 1928. New York,
Farrar & Rinehart, 1929. UK pb Penguin; US pb Little Brown.
Weldon, Fay: Female Friends. London, Heinemann, 1975. New York,
St Martin's, 1974. UK pb Picador; US pb Academy.
Woolf, Virginia: Mrs Dalloway. London, Hogarth Press, 1925. New
York, Harcourt, 1925. UK pb Oxford; US pb Harcourt Brace.
235

Index of Names
Note: numerals in bold indicate substantive quotation and/or
discussion of a writer's work.
Abish, Walter, 107-8, 231
Adair, Gilbert, 107
Amis, Kingsley, 109-12, 192,
231
Amis, Martin, 56-60, 79, 87,
92-3, 195,231
Aristotle, 71, 217
Austen, Jane, x, 3-7, 22, 37,
42,43,84-7, no, 167,
179, 194, 223, 223-4, 226,
229,231
Auster, Paul, 35-40, 231
Baker, Nicholson, 172-3
Bakhtin, Mikhail, 57, 128-9
Barnes, Julian, 194
Barth,John, 206-9,
 220>
 23
I
Barthelme, Donald, 186-8,
231
Barthes, Roland, 221
Baudelaire, Charles, 139
Beaumont, Sir Francis, 163,
165
Beckett, Samuel, 48, 219-22,
231
Bennett, Arnold, 178-82,
185, 189,231
Booth, Wayne, x
Borges, Jorge Luis, 208
Bradbury, Malcolm, 117-20,
199, 232
Breton, André, 175
Brontë, Charlotte, 52-5, 150,
232
Brontë, Emily, 194
Bunyanjohn, 143, 232
Burgess, Anthony, 31,
197-200, 232
Butler, Samuel, 142-5, 199,
232
Calvino, Italo, 8, 81, 209
Capote, Truman, 202
Carlyle, Thomas, 201-5, 232
Carrington, Leonora, 174-7,
232
Carroll, Lewis, 175
Carter, Angela, 114, 175
Cecil, Lord David, 150
Cervantes Saavedra, Miguel
de, 123
Clewlow, Carol, 195
Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, 85,
100-1, 216
Collins, Wilkie, 14, 31, 194
Compton-Burnett, Ivy, 7,
170
Conan Doyle, Arthur, 31
237
INDEX
Conrad, Joseph, 8, 31,
98-101, 159-60, 194, 220,
232
Cooper, William, 189-92,
232
Crane, R.S., 217
Dali, Salvador, 175
Dante Alighieri, 101
Davies, Andrew, 22
Defoe, Daniel, 42, 57, 118,
163, 193, 203, 225
Derrida, Jacques, 223
Dickens, Charles, 8, 31,
57-8, 65, 84-8, 92, 106,
110, 128, 132, 167, 190,
205, 223, 232
Dostoevsky, Fyodor
Mikhailovich, 198
Drabble, Margaret, 207-8,
209, 232
Duchamp, Marcel, 175
Dujardin, Edouard, 48-9
Eliot, George, x, 9-10, 37,
38,42,67-9, 110, 131,
133» 163-6, 182-5, 187,
190, 224, 233
Eliot, T. S., 59, 101-3, 105
Eliot, Valerie, 103
Ernst, Max, 174, 175
Faulkner, William, 48
Fenton, James, ix, x
Feydeau, Georges, 152
Fielding, Henry, 10, 57, 58,
99, 110, 122-4, 126, 127,
128-9, 186, 193,217,225,
232
Fitzgerald, F. Scott, 61-5,
232
Flaubert, Gustave, 26
Fletcher, John, 163, 165
Ford, Ford Madox, 4-7, 77,
195»
 2 3
2
Forster, E.M., 7, 9-12, 38,
110, 164, 194,232
Fowles, John, 31, 130-3, 208,
220-1, 224, 232
Frayn, Michael, 21-4 , 135,
233
Freud, Sigmund, 31, 175
Gissing, George, 193-4, 233
Gofrman, Erving, 11, 209
Golding, William, 223-6, 233
Grass, Gunter, 114
Green, Henry, 104-7,
 I7°>
233
Greene, Graham, 8, 77, 141,
143-4, 158-61, 233
Hampton, Christopher, 119
Hardy, Thomas, 7, 13-16, 31,
no, 132, 194, 195,233
Hartley, L.P., 8
Heller, Joseph, 12-13 , 233
Hemingway, Ernest, 18, 62,
65, 89-92, 94, 95, 194,
233
Homer, 59, 75
Horace, ix, x
Huxley, Aldous, 199
Inglis, Brian, 150
Isherwood, Christopher,
66-9, 170, 233
Ishiguro, Kazuo, 155-7,
 233
Jakobson, Roman, 141
238
INDEX
James, Henry, x, 81, 25-9,
31,36,41,42,69,90, 143,
149-52, 212, 224, 236
James, William, 42
Jonson, Ben, 216
Joyce, James, 8, 14, 42, 45,
46-51, 59» 77> 82, 99,
101-2, 105, 118, 146-7,
163, 165, 194,208,221,
233
Keneally, Thomas, 202
Kipling, Rudyard, 30-4, 81,
166, 233
Kubrick, Stanley, 200
Kundera, Milan, 113-16, 233
Laclos, Pierre Choderlos de,
22
Lawrence, D.H., 92, 138-41,
191, 194, 198, 208, 233
Lodge, David, 31, 35, 37-8,
102-3, 126, 141, 151-3 ,
167-9, 195-6, 226-30,
234
Longinus, 165
Lylyjohn, 96-7, 234
Magritte, René, 175
Mailer, Norman, 202
Mallarmé, Stéphane, 139
Mann, Thomas, 198
Marlow, Christopher, 34
Marquez, Gabriel Garcia, 114
Melville, Herman, 7
Michaels, Leonard, 215-18,
234
Moore, Lome, 62-3, 234
More, Thomas, 144
Morris, William, 199
Musil, Robert, 198
Nabokov, Vladimir, 94-7, 99,
157, 234
Orwell, George, 134-7,
 J43>
199»
 2 34
Perec, Georges, 107, 195
Picasso, Pablo Ruiz y, 105
Plato, 198
Poe, Edgar Allan, 39, 96, 99,
211-14,234
Pound, Ezra, 103
Proust, Marcel, 14, 118, 222
Richardson, Dorothy, 42, 105
Richardson, Samuel, 22-4,
42,99, 118, 193
Rousseau, Jean-Jacques, 22
Rushdie, Salman, 114
Ruskin,John, 85, 86
Salinger, J.D., 7-8, 17-20,
27, 59» 194, 199» 234
Sartre, Jean-Paul, 198
Saussure, Ferdinand de, 36
Scott, Walter, 60, 130-31,
163, 165, 204
Shakespeare, William, 34, 36,
101, 219
Shelley, Mary, 214
Shklovsky, Victor, 53
Smollett, Tobias, no, 162,
164, 234
Sophocles, 71, 216
Spark, Muriel, 74-8, 234
Spenser, Edmund, 152
239
INDEX
Stein, Gertrude, 105 Virgil, 10
Sterne, Laurence, 80-3, 100, Verlaine, Paul, 139
162-5, 190, 191, 206, 207, Vonnegut, Kurt, 77-8,
209, 234 209-10, 235
Stevenson, Robert Louis, 214
Swift, Jonathan, 143 Waugh, Evelyn, 7, 110-11 ,
169-72, 194, 235
Thackeray, William Weldon, Fay, 115, 125-9,
Makepeace, 70-3, 131, 131, 235
164, 234 Wells, H.G., 87
Tillotson, Kathleen, 71 Weston, Jessie L., 102
Todorov, Tzvetan, 212-1 3 Winterson, Jeanette, 114, 175
Tolstoy, Leo Nikolaevich, 53 Wolfe, Tom, 202-5, 208
Twain, Mark, 18-19, 234 Woolf, Virginia, 41-5 , 67, 82,
105, 235
Updike, John, 111, 146-9,
235 Zola, Emile, 105