
BLOOD
THIRST
100 Years
of
VampirE? Fiction
EDITED AND WITH AN INTRODUCTION BY
LEONARD WOLF
OXFORD
UNIVERSITY PRESS 
Special thanks to Greg Cox for his contribution
to the headnotes and section heads. -L.W.
OXFORD
UNIVERSITY PRESS
Oxford New York
Athens Auckland Bangkok Bogota Buenos Aires Calcutta
Cape Town Chennai Dar es Salaam Delhi Florence Hong Kong Istanbul
Karachi Kuala Lumpur Madrid Melbourne Mexico City Mumbai
Nairobi Paris Sao Paulo Singapore Taipei Tokyo Toronto Warsaw
and associated companies in
Berlin Ibadan
Compilation Copyright© 1997 by Byron Preiss Visual Publications, Inc.
Introduction copyright© 1997 by Leonard Wolf
Illustrations copyright© 1997 by Max Douglas
First published by Oxford University Press, Inc., 1997
First issued as an Oxford University Press paperback, 1999
198 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016
Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise,
without the prior permission of Oxford University Press.
Since this page cannot legibly accommodate the acknowledgments,
page 380 constitutes an extension of the copyright page.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Blood thirst: 100 years of vampire fiction I edited and with an introduction
by Leonard Wolf
p. em.
ISBN 0-19-511593-7 (alk. paper)
ISBN 0-19-513250-5 (pbk.)
1. Vampires-Fiction. 2. Horror tales, English. 3. Horror tales, American.
I. Wolf, Leonard.
PR1309.V36B58 1997
823'.0873808375-dc21 97-15366
1 3 5 7 9 10 8 6 4 2
Printed in the United States of America 
CONTENTS
Introduction, Leonard Wolf
1: THE CLASSIC ADVENTURE TALE • II
The Story of Chugoro, Lafcadio Hearn
Count Magnus, M. R. james
For the Blood Is the Life, F. Marion Crawford
The Drifting Snow, August Derleth
Salem's Lot (excerpt), Stephen King
II: THE PsYCHOLOGICAL VAMPIRE • 67
Luella Miller, Mary E. Wilkins-Freeman
The Transfer, Algernon Blackwood
The Girl With the Hungry Eyes, Fritz Leiber
Torch Song, john Cheever
Bellefleur (excerpt), Joyce Carol Oates
III: THE SciENCE FICTION VAMPIRE • 135
Shambleau, C. L. Moore
The Hunger (excerpt), Whitley Strieber
I Am Legend (excerpt), Richard Matheson
Vanishing Breed, Leslie Roy Carter
Unicorn Tapestry, Suzy McKee Charnas
A Child of Darkness, Susan Casper
1
12
17
28
41
51
68
80
90
103
117
136
160
178
188
196
245 
IV: THE NoN-HUMAN VAMPIRE • 255
The Spider, Hanns Heinz Ewers
Negotium Perambulans, E. F. Benson
The Stainless Steel Leech, Roger Zelazny
Bite-Me-Not or, Fleur de Feu, Tanith Lee
V: THE COMIC VAMPIRE • 313
Blood, Frederic Brown
Blood Brother, Charles Beaumont
Count Dracula, Woody Allen
VI: THE HEROIC VAMPIRE • 325
256
273
285
290
314
316
321
Hotel Transylvania (excerpt), Chelsea Quinn Yarbro 326
The Master of Rampling Gate, Anne Rice 337
Good Kids, Edward Bryant 359
Exposure, Laura Anne Gilman 3 71 
INTROI)UCTION
by LEONARD WoLF
B
ram Stoker's novel Dracula appeared in 1 897, one hundred years ago.
Since its publication, the book has never been out of print and its title
character, Count Dracula, has become an icon of terror familiar to many
millions of people. All the world knows the count's name and for what
he is famous. He has lost his status as a character in a work of fiction
and has become instead a figure embedded in our subconscious.
Perhaps because Stoker's Dracula evolved into such a mythic figure,
subsequent writers of vampire fiction have failed to invent a character of
comparable grandeur. Regardless of the explanation, there have been very
few vampire novels of distinction published since 1 897; of more than one
hundred fifty, only a handful is of literary merit.
That handful includes George Sylvester Viereck's House of the Vampire
( 1907), Dion Fortune's The Demon Lover ( 1927), Richard Matheson's I
Am Legend ( 1954), Theodore Sturgeon's Some of Your Blood ( 1961),
Raymond Rudorff's The Dracula Archives (1971 ), Fred Saberhagen's The
Dracula Tapes (1975 ), Stephen King's Salem's Lot ( 1975), Anne Rice's
Interview with the Vampire ( 1976)', Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's Hotel Transylvania ( 1977), Tanith Lee's Sabella or the Bloodstone ( 1980), Suzy
McKee Charnas's The Vampire Tapestry ( 1980), and Whitley Strieber's
The Hunger (1981 )
Of that small list''., the works that most engage our attention are those
by Stephen King, Anne Rice, Suzy McKee Charnas, Tanith Lee, and Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, all of whom are included in this anthology.
King, author of a single vampire novel (Salem's Lot), has won a loyal
and enormous following with his compelling plots and unpretentious style.
Rice has created a five-volume series of vampire novels, the Vampire
Chronicles, in which she develops a kind of epic vampire theogony. Her
lush prose and polymorphous eroticism have enchanted millions of readers. Both writers are monuments on the horror fiction scene.
Charnas and Lee are both accomplished prose stylists. In Charnas's
work, the idea of the vampire transcends its usual limitations as an armature for a horror fiction, becoming (as it does, for example, in J. Sheridan
Le Fanu's Carmilla) a means of investigating the most dangerous, if also
the most exalting, of human experiences: being in love. In Lee's hands,
vampire fiction can feel darkly sumptuous even as it is curiously otherworldly, sweetly dreamlike.
''Derived from the chronological list in V i.s for Vampire (Plume, 1996). 
2 @01
\\)i)¥-JI Introduction
Yarbro created Count Saint-Germain, the noblest of the sympathetic
vampires who began to appear in fiction in the 1 970s. Saint-Germain, the
hero of Hotel Transylvania, is a model of decency, grace, and intelligence.
He is also a superb lover who, in his long life, has learned erotic secrets
that render his lovers (they are not exactly his victims) weak with gratitude
for his attentions. He is a rather wonderful mix of the Scarlet Pimpernelheroic, witty, wise, distinguished, and dedicated to doing good-and the
demon lover for whom women, in fiction at least, are presumed to be
wailing endlessly.
If the writers of vampire novels have not, by and large, produced works
of real literary merit, short story writers in this century have produced a
rich array of vampire fiction, as the stories collected here demonstrate.
Before turning our attention to these stories, I want to deal with a
literary critical-and perhaps psychological-problem that has vexed me
for more than three decades: What is there about the image of the vampire
that makes it such a singularly attractive genre to twentieth-century readers and moviegoers? If we look at popular culture fiction, what do we
see? In murder mysteries, we are interested in variations on the "who
done it?" theme. In sword-and-sorcery fiction, the interplay of derring-do
and the supernatural holds our interest. In the so-called women's Gothic
fiction (the bodice-rippers), the pulsing eroticism beneath the story line
draws in the reader. And in mainstream horror, the reader's interest is
focused on the variety of gruesome ways in which human lives are threatened, tormented, or ended.
But vampire fiction, which has elements of all the above genres, exerts
an amazing pull on readers for a reason that we may find disturbing.
To begin with, any vampire fiction has blood as its primary metaphor.
As the mad Renfield in Stoker's Dracula says, quoting the Bible, "The
blood is the life," a fact impressed upon any of us who have ever bled
or seen someone else bleed copiously. Beyond that, as Havelock Ellis
explained long ago, "There is scarcely any natural object with so profoundly emotional an effect as blood.'"'
Over the eons, blood has acquired a variety of social meanings. The
Bible memorializes the first shedding of human blood in the story of Cain
and Abel. A bond of blood, as between members of different clans, stands
for close relationship, for brother- or sisterhood. We say of particularly
cruel people that they are bloodthirsty. There are cultures in which menstrual blood is regarded as taboo and others in which it is supposed to
bring good luck. Folk tradition has it that pacts with the devil must be
signed in blood. In the Catholic Christian tradition, there is the profound
mystery of the salvational power of wine transubstantiated into the blood
of Christ.
»Studies in the Psychology of Sex, Second edition, Vol. 3 (F. A. Davis Inc., 1927). 
Leonard Wolf ? 3
Blood can also represent our identity. Speaking proudly of a child or a
grandchild, we say, "My blood flows in his or her veins."
Some years ago, I thought I had a key to the power of the vampire
image. In an essentially sociologic:al reading of Stoker's Dracula, I was
willing to believe that the vampire count stood for the modern industrialized world's fascination with "energy without grace, power without responsibility.'"' I saw in Dracula a symbol of the unbridled, and often
exploitative expansion in the twentieth century of industrialism and the
factory system. The phrase "energy without grace" referred to the contemporary tendency to admire vitality for its own sake, regardless of its intended use.
When America was still involved in the war in Vietnam I had no trouble
seeing in Dracula an apt symbol of that disastrous and bloody conflict. It
seemed to me, too, that Dracula stood for the American fixation on youth
and for our well-known unwillingness to confront the reality of our
own death.
I have not entirely abandoned such views, but now the appeal of vampire imagery to me seems less global and more personal. Contemporary
readers and filmgoers are drawn to vampire imagery because it speaks to
them about deeply inner (and especially sexual) temptations and doubts.
The point is-and in recent years, it has been made again and again by
many commentators on the genre-that the blood exchange represents
every variety of sexual union: men with women, men with men, fathers
with daughters, mothers with sons, women with women. Moreover, the
vampire's embrace is perceived as an intimate entry. In Stoker's novel, the
innocent Lucy, "vampirized" by Dracula, acquires the looks and manners
of a sexually experienced whore. Even the blood donations Lucy gets from
the male heroes are perceived by 1the donors as making them, in a sense,
Lucy's husbands. And, when Dracula takes Mina Harker's blood and
forces her to drink his, he uses the language of the marriage ceremony:
"She is blood of my blood, flesh of my flesh." Because she has Dracula's
blood in her veins, Mina has a psychic bond with him, enabling her to
guide his enemies to him.
In addition to the erotic implications of the blood exchange, vampire
fiction has psychological and spiritual meanings as well. In nineteenthcentury stories (especially in Stoker's novel), the vampire's victim is spiritually tainted because the vampire is defined as a creature of the devil.
Stoker's Dracula, when we first meet him, is a loathsome, white-haired
old man with bad breath and hair on the palms of his hands. He recaptures his youth and sustains his immortality by drinking the blood of his
victims. In twentieth-century fiction, particularly that written in the second
half of the century, the religious content of the imagery has progressively
''Wolf, Leonard. A Dream of Dracula (Potter, 1992). 
4 ?
Ml¥11 Introduction
diminished, and the vampire, more and more frequently, is seen as a thief
of psychological energy rather than as a threat to the immortal soul.
Not only have late-twentieth-century vampires been secularized, but
they have also been more and more explicitly eroticized. The vampires
imagined for us by writers like Rice and Yarbro and filmmakers like
Francis Ford Coppola are handsome, youthful, romantic, and sensuous.
I have begun to think, too, that the vampire embrace fascinates latetwentieth-century readers because of the gracefulness with which it is
usually depicted. One thinks of the dreamlike stillness of the vampire's
lovemaking. A vampire bends over his or her victim; there is a not particularly painful little bite, and the victim's face takes on a look of bliss. How
different-and to some readers, how soothingly different-that is from
the usual, and essentially awkward, tumults of sex.
Finally, there is the special meaning that the vampire idea has acquired
in our minds since the coming of AIDS. Because it is a blood-transmitted
disease, AIDS has re-emphasized the ways in which blood, sex, and death
are linked, giving an additional meaning to our reading of vampire fiction.
The vampire was seen simply as a monster who could endanger a victim's
life and taint his or her immortal soul. Now, in the age of AIDS, the
blood exchange between vampire and victim, still deadly, has the new
and very modern implication of a death preceded by a lingering and incurable disease.
Stories about vampires existed long before Stoker. There is a vampire
episode in Lucius Apuleius's The Golden Ass, a second-century Latin classic, and there is no dearth of vampire folklore in Europe. It was not,
however, until the nineteenth century that The Vampyre, the first vampire
novel in English, appeared. The Vampyre, by John Polidori, an ambivalent
friend, traveling companion, and physician of George Gordon, Lord
Byron, was written in answer to a challenge Byron made to his guests in
the Villa Diodati on a rainy summer evening in Geneva in 1 816. Those
guests included Polidori, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and Mary Shelley, all of
whom Byron challenged to write a ghost story. Byron himself never wrote
more than a fragment. Percy Sl,elley did not make the attempt. Mary
Shelley's response to the challenge was the novel Frankenstein.
Polidori's The Vampyre appeared in 1 821 and had an impact, particularly on the European stage, far beyond its apparent merit. Polidori's
vampire is Lord Ruthven (a thinly disguised Byron), a pallid English nobleman who befriends a young gentleman named Aubrey. Ruthven "vampirizes" Aubrey's sister even as Aubrey-bound by an oath not to reveal for
a year what he knows about Ruthven-is unable to save his sister from
her fate. Since neither Aubrey nor his sister are characters with much
individuality or vitality, and since the plot of the novel turns on Aubrey's
keeping a ridiculous promise, one can only be surprised at the story's
durability in theaters on the Continent in the first half of the nineteenth
century. 
Leonard Wolf 1JD :z 5
The next major fictional vampire character to appear in print was Var·­
ney the Vampyre (1847), for a long time attributed to Thomas Preskett
Prest but actually written by James Malcolm Rymer. Although excessively
long and frequently ridiculous, the novel is dear to my heart. I am enchanted by the author's endlessly ingenious wordiness, and by the novel's
almost infinite number of subplots.
Rymer's prose is high pitched and breathless. We have helpless heroines
and a "tall, gaunt figure in hideous relief ... a long, gaunt hand which
seems utterly destitute of flesh ... the figure turns half around ... it is
perfectly white-perfectly bloodbs . . . her beautiful rounded limbs
quivered ... he seizes her neck in his fang-like teeth-a gush of blood,
and a hideous sucking noise follows .... '"'· Readers of Rymer's prose
must be endlessly patient and tolerant of drawn-out suspense. The bloodthirsty Varney is as memorable as he is unbelievable. But here, unlike the
more well-known Dracula, there is some sympathy for the vampire.
From the unintentionally comic and seemingly endless pages of Varney
the Vampyre, we move next to J. Sheridan Le Fanu's 1 872 novella Carmil/a, a superbly literate, beautifully crafted story by a man who, like
Stoker, was an Irishman. The vampire in Carmilla is a woman, as are her
victims. This fact has led many readers, critics among them, to conclude
that this is a novella whose primary focus is lesbianism. I do not share
that view. I am convinced that the power and the literary value of Le
Fanu's story lies in its study of the fragility of human love. Of course,
there is a deep undercurrent of Eros in this story, as there is in all love
stories. But Le Fanu's focus is on the tragic fact that betrayal, too, is an
essential element in love-not on the fact that the vampire's victim is a
woman. As Carmilla describes it, "as I draw near to you, you, in your
turn, will draw near to the others, and learn the rapture of that cruelty,
which yet is love .... "
The next novel to appear was Stoker's, in 1 897. When I describe Count
Dracula as "embedded in our subconscious," I may, without intending it,
seem to imply that the novel alone broadcast the image of the count to
the world. That is not what happened.
Stoker's novel, conceived originally as a "shilling shocker," did not
reveal to its first readers the layers of meaning that late-twentieth-century
critics have since found in it, and which have made subsequent readers
acknowledge the novel's greatness. Read only for its plot, as it originally
was, Dracula is still a first-rate adventure tale in which a group of devoted
and high-minded heroes pursue and finally destroy an evil Transylvanian
creature of the night who menaces British womanhood. Stoker added to
that plotline another not particularly complicated element. The antagonist,
Count Dracula, is depicted as a satanic creature, the Primal Dragon, and
*Varma, Devendra P., ed. Varney the Vampyre (Ayer, 1972). 
6 @'81)
Y!Jl)}QI In trod ucti on
his pursuers as a sort of composite St. George doing battle with the
dragon.
Stoker did not attempt anything like character analysis. His characters
are two dimensional, his humor is a step above music-hall comedy, his
heroes are heroic, his women are beautiful and good ( until Dracula taints
their purity). Dracula himself is a minion of Satan and is wholly villainous.
On the other hand, Stoker-who spent most of his adult life in the
service of Sir Henry Irving, England's most famous actor, and who heard
fine stage prose being spoken almost daily-had an ear for high-sounding
speech, which he imitated with considerable success in Dracula. He was
served by his slight knowledge of the historical Vlad Tepes, a fifteenthcentury Transylvanian tyrant whose cruelties are notorious. He had also
read a wonderful travel book by an Englishwoman named Emily Gerard,
The Land Beyond the Forest (1888), in which he found most of the
vampire lore he used in Dracula.
Stoker also possessed an extraordinarily lucid vision of the psychological implications of his central metaphor. I do not say he understood them.
To see clearly is not the same as to understand what one sees. Stoker's
story, as he gave it to us, has left us wrestling ever since with its varied
meanings.
Though Dracula in its time sold reasonably well, it did not become a
best-seller until after Stoker's death. However, it was films based on Stoker's book, that eventually made Dracula a household word.
It should not surprise us that films based on Stoker's novel have never
been faithful to his text. Stoker's story, though it makes for dramatic
reading, has far too many characters and far too many incidents to sustain
a filmgoer's interest for very long. In any case, film fiction is not the same
art form as print fiction. Film has to show what a print reader can imagine. We need not then grade our film versions of the Dracula story on
whether they are or are not faithful to the book.
The German film Nosferatu (1922), made by Prana Films, is a pirated,
thinly disguised version of Stoker's story. F. W. Murnau, the film's director, believed that by making superficial changes to the names of Stoker's
characters, he could appropriate the story. An outraged Florence Stoker
sued and eventually prevailed in the German courts, which ruled that
all copies of the film were to be destroyed. Fortunately for us, some
copies survived.
In Murnau's silent film, the vampire is seen as a caricature of a monster.
Max Schreck, the actor who plays Count Orlock, the vampire, is given
the pointed ears of an animal, long fingernails, a face with hideously
distorted features, and glazing eyes. If he resembles any literary character
at all, it is Varney the Vampyre, but in fact he is simply meant to look
like a monster.
Nosferatu, despite the deficiencies of comparatively primitive filmmaking technology, is one of the world's greatest horror films. The sequences 
Leonard Wolf ? 7
in which Orlock appears feel like authentic transcriptions from nightmares. The climactic scene in which Orlock comes to "vampirize" Nina
(Mina Harker in Stoker's Dracula) is terrifying in the extreme and, as in
Stoker's Dracula, has religious implications, as Nina assumes the role of
a sacrificial figure who will die for the sake of humanity.
Although Nosferatu is indeed frightful, it would be nearly ten years
before the film appeared that would give the world the Dracula it would
never forget.
In 1 931, Universal Pictures released Tod Browning's Dracula with Bela
Lugosi in the title role. The film, based on the Hamilton Dean/john Balderston stage play adaptation of the novel rather than on the novel itself,
is marred by comic interludes meant to appeal to theater audiences. I have
taken critical potshots at this poorly edited film in my time, but despite
its jerky pacing and wooden performances by David Manners (John
Harker), Helen Chandler ( Mina Harker), and Frances Dade (Lucy Weston
!sic]), it is still, because of the unsurpassed achievements of Lugosi as
Dracula and Dwight Frye as Renfield, the most memorable Dracula yet
made. Lugosi's face and accent will spring to mind whenever the name
Dracula is mentioned. With this film began the mythologizing of the name
Dracula. Who can ever forget Lugosi's magisterial "I do not drink ...
wine," or his "Listen to them, children of the night. What music they
make"?
The Lugosi film created for us the Dracula we now experience as an
archetype: the vampire in tie and tails who is a supremely civilized yet
unmistakably feral being who can be drawing-room charming but may
also take on the guise of a bat or a wolf. Always he (or she ) is an
irrepressible force whose dynamic energy is profoundly attractive.
That attraction has been presented to us on screen in a variety of guises.
Christopher Lee's Dracula in the English Hammer Films productions of
the late 1 950s and 1 960s is cold, aloof, immobile, and implicitly violent.
Gloria Holden's title role in Dracula's Daughter (1936) is brooding, anguished, and profoundly dangerous. Frank Langella's theatrical Dracula
(1979) is playful, witty, charming., and utterly cuddly. John Canadine, in
Billy the Kid versus Dracula ( 1 965), is as funny as the characters who
appear in opera bouffe, while William Marshall, in the exploitation film
Blacula ( 1972), is dignified and dynamic with the look in his eyes of a
man who has suffered an incurable inner wound. Gary Oldman, in Francis
Ford Coppola's Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992), had the difficult task of
playing several roles in that film: the fierce fifteenth-century warrior Vlad
Tepes, the aged nineteenth-century Count Dracula, the blood-revivified
youthful count, and, at intervals, the demonic version of that self.
I have described at length the part that the film industry has played in
the development of our ideas about vampires because, since 1 922, the
eroticism of the vampire embrace has been rendered in film more and
more explicitly; and, almost as a corollary, the vampires themselves have 
8 ?
?!)}WI Introduction
been reimagined for us as sympathetic creatures: as Byronic heroes, as
admirable outlaws, as heroic antagonists of God himself.
That tectonic moral shift in the perception of vampires on movie screens
has had its impact on the vampire fiction that has appeared in print. The
distance between Stoker's conception of his evil Count Dracula and
Yarbro's elegant, fastidious, and admirable Count Saint-Germain is exemplary. For Stoker, Dracula, an unmitigatedly evil creature in the service
of the devil, preyed not only upon Christian lives but also on Christian
souls. Saint-Germain, who actually wears a cross, is infinitely wise and
decent. If Dracula eroticizes women to procure their damnation, SaintGermain does the same to give them supreme pleasure.
In a century in which God and Satan have become increasingly irrelevant in the popular arts, there has been an accompanying secularization
of the vampire idea. There has been a shift in interest on the part of
readers and filmgoers. While in the earlier books and films the vampire's
victim suffered from his or her embrace, in more recent works the focus
is on the erotic sensuality of the embrace. Death may be the result but,
as in Coppola's film interpretation of Stoker, it is a small price to pay for
the ecstasy and the immortal life and youth that is the vampire's gift. Not
surprisingly, for hasty readers and filmgoers, the grace of God is less
appealing than a sublimely sensual passion.
The stories in this collection were selected with two goals in mind: first,
to give readers as much pleasure as a single anthology can be expected
to provide; second, to display the evolutionary shift in the treatment of
the vampire.
Though literary theory is not my strong point, that has not kept me
from noticing that the tales can fall into six descriptive categories. But a
reader should be warned: categories are rhetorical devices, useful in making suggestive distinctions. The reader should not be surprised that one
or another of the tales in this book could fall into a category other than
the one to which it is assigned. For instance, "Shambleau," by C. L.
Moore, could easily fit in any of four categories: The Classic Adventure
Tale, the Psychological Vampire, the Science Fiction Vampire, or the NonHuman Vampire. But Moore was chiefly a science fiction writer, so I feel
most comfortable calling her tale science fiction.
The categories, then, are:
• The Classic Adventure Tale, for which the narrative line of Stoker's
novel is the model. In such tales, the tension of the plot derives from the
antagonism that exists between the entirely evil vampire and the good
people on whom he or she intends to feed. The designa:ed victims, singly
or with help, fight back and are usually triumphant. Examples include
"The Blood Is the Life," by F. Marion Crawford, and the excerpt from
Stephen King's Salem's Lot.
• The Psychological Vampire. This category, it should be noted, does
not appear as a distinct genre until the mid-twentieth century, the age of 
/)'') .. ?
Leonard Wolf j?T' 9
Freud. In the tales under this rubric, the word "vampire" is more nearly
a metaphor than it is a literal description of the antagonist. The vampires
in these stories do not drink blood. Instead, they are thieves of energy. In
Mary E. Wilkins-Freeman's "Luella Miller," Luella literally, without turning a hand, drives those who help her into early graves.
• The Science Fiction Vampire. In this category, the stories take plac:e
within a recognizable science fiction ambiance: time travel, intergalactic
voyages, genetic mutations, chemical constructs. Often such stories, lacking psychological or allegorical resonance, are, from a fictional point of
view, comparatively weak. Both C. L. Moore's ''Shambleau" and Suzy
McKee Charnas's "Unicorn Tapestry" are powerful exceptions to that
rule. "Shambleau" renders, almos1c unbearably, the "slimy, dreadful, and
wet" physical attraction of monstrous couplings, while "Unicorn Tapestry" focuses on the intellectual attraction of the vampire.
• The Non-Human Vampire. Stories in which non-human vampires
appear normally do not inspire much reader sympathy; low-grade humor
is what such stories usually achieve. It is hard to care for the fortunes of
cat-vampires, dog-vampires, plant-vampires, rabbit-vampires, or, as in one
amazing comic book, a cow-vampire. For Blood Thirst, however, I have
gathered tales of non-human vampires that outwit this general principle,
such as Hanns Heinz Ewers's "The Spider" and Tanith Lee's "Bite-MeNot or, Fleur de Feu." In "The Spider," the mimetic gestures that the
vampire and her victim exchange between their facing windows become
a hypnotic ballet performance whose graceful form adds horror to the
tale. With "Bite-Me-Not ... "it is Lee's suave and romantic prose that
gives the story depth.
• The Comic Vampire. One would suppose that it would be hard to
find humor in a genre of fiction in which blood drinking is a central
theme. Still, there are vampire jokes and there have been a considerable
number of quite funny vampire films. Not the least among them are The
Fearless Vampire Killers (1967) and Love at First Bite (1979), which spoof
both vampirism and the shibboleths of the Love Generation. Then too,
Abbott and Costello have exploited vampirism for such laughs as they
could get. In this anthology ther<e are some funny short stories, such as
filmmaker Woody Allen's "Count Dracula" and Frederic Brown's
"Blood."
• Finally, we have The Heroic Vampire. The tales in this category, like
those listed as Psychological Vampire stories, are latecomers to the vampire fiction scene. Here we have the diametric opposite of Stoker, with
the vampire no longer representing absolute evil. Instead, the reader is
meant to sympathize with the creature. We have Edward Bryant's "Good
Kids," Anne Rice's "The Master of Rampling Gate," and the tale of a
vampire photographer with a deadly artistic ambition in Laura Anne Gilman's "Exposure." The charm of the latter story lies in the delicious 
1 0 @'01
MJ¥JI Introduction
paradox that its vampire protagonist, a creature of darkness, is desirous
of capturing a sunrise on film.
Here, then, is Blood Thirst: 1 00 Years of Vampire Fiction, a collection
of vampire tales written in the century following Bram Stoker's Dracula.
Sometimes the tales are grotesque, sometimes sublime. Sometimes whimsical, and sometimes profound. The startling variety of the stories gathered
here is proof of the paradox that, though Stoker's fictional vampire could
cast no shadow, his literary shadow hovers over all the tales in this book.
Who'd have thought the old man had so much blood in him? 
········}········
THE CLASSIC
ADVENTURE TALE
P
rior to literature of the twent11eth century, vampires were depicted as
unrepentant monsters, heartless creatures of hell who threatened the
innocent and tested the courage of brave men and women. As the stories in this section show, there is still a lot of life left in such old-fashioned
fiends. Dracula remains the model for such adventure tales, pitting Dr. Van
Helsing and his hardy band of vampire-hunters against the seemingly unstoppable menace of the undying count. This type of conflict has been slavishly imitated ever since in inferior sequels and copies.
Still, several subsequent writers have crafted novels exploring ingenious
variations on this theme of heartless vampire and earnest foe. Progeny of
the Adder by Leslie H. Whitten (1965) updates the traditional adventure
tale, and gives it a new sense of contemporary verisimilitude, by changing
the hero to a big-city cop and disguising an old-fashioned vampire story
as a police procedural. Jeff Rice accomplished much of the same feat im
The Night Stalker (1973 ), which inspired two TV movies and a shortlived TV series about a spook-chasing reporter named Carl Kolchak. Stephen King's best-selling Salem's Lot (1975, excerpted in this volume) effectively transfers Stoker's plot to a small New England town. Necroscope
by Brian Lumley ( 1 986) is a gle:efully gory mixture of science fiction,
espionage, and full-blooded vampire fighting that has spawned at least
nine sequels and is still going strong. Other successful tales of Good versus
Undead Evil include The Light at the End by John Skipp and Craig Spector ( 1986) and Bloodletter by Warren Newton Beath ( 1994).
In these novels, and in the stories that follow, there is little of the moral
ambiguity seen in much of today's vampire fiction. The vampires are dastardly and dangerous, and the humans are resourceful and in peril.
Of these tales, Stephen King's vampire and his good-guy opponents follow
the Stoker formula most closely. In M. R. James's "Count Magnus," the
count is more a force than he is a person, but he is an evil force.
It is the sheer, fear-inspiring threat of supernatural evil that propels
these stories. The Classic Adventure Tale works now, as it did in Bram
Stoker's time, because it taps into our primal fear of blood-sucking creatures from beyond the grave. 
LAFCADIO HEARN
(1850-1904)
Patricio Lafcadio Tessima Carlos Hearn, the great interpreter of Japanese culture to the Western world, was born in Greece and spent his
childhood in France, England, and Ireland. He was, for many years, a
journalist. Among his other literary achievements are his translations of
Theophile Gautier into English. Gautier, it will be remembered, is the
author of La Morte Amoureuse ("Amorous Love"), one of the finest vampire tales ever written.
Hearn began his career in America as a reporter for the Cincinnati
Enquirer and soon started, along with his friend Henry Farney, Ye Giglampz, a journal of social satire. The publication lasted for only a few
months, but Hearn went on to more successful writing ventures, including
Chita: A Memory of Last Island (1 889), with which he made his mark
among American writers. His works are gathered in many posthumous
volumes, including Editorials (1926), Essays on American Literature
(1 929), Barbarous Barbers and Other Stories (1 939), and the sixteenvolume Writings of Lafcadio Hearn (1 922).
From 1 890 to 1 894 Hearn lived in Japan, where he seems to have
found his spiritual home. Kwaidan (1 904), Hearn's collection of Japanese
folktales and ghost stories, was the basis for Masaki Kobayashi's wonderful film of the same name (1 964).
The tales in K waidan reflect the view that everything in the world,
living or not, is sentient and capable of exercising will, whether for good
or evil. It is a view we will see reflected in Algernon Blackwood's "The
Transfer. " Hearn's tales are notable for their lucidity, for a simplicity of
narrative style that we tend to think of as '?Japanese. "
Here, in "The Story of Chugor6, " the narrator assumes that supernatural creatures inhabit the natural world, and that they hunger to experience human life. Without reaching for psychological detail or intricate
plot development, the story, in the form of an allegory about a succubus,
describes what the ingredients are for unhappiness in love: a desiring man,
a beautiful and charming woman, and a difference between their two
natures so great that disaster is inevitable. Like other examples of the
Classic Adventure Tale, it is also an elemental tale of ordinary humanity
confronting a dangerous supernatural force. 
THE STORY OF CHUGORO WI A long timt 'go thm lived, in tht Koi<hibw• qu.ncc of
Yedo, a batamoto named Suzuki, whose yashiki was situated on the bank
of the Yedogawa, not far from the bridge called Naka-no-hashi. And
among the retainers of this Suzuki there was an ashigaru named Chugor6.
Chugori) was a handsome lad, very amiable and clever, and much liked
by his comrades.
For several years Chugoro remained in the service of Suzuki, conducting
himself so well that no fault was found with him. But at last the other
ashigaru discovered that Chugoro was in the habit of leaving the yashiki
every night, by way of the garden, and staying out until a little before
dawn. At first they said nothing to him about this strange behavior; for
his absences did not interfere with any regular duty, and were supposed
to be caused by some love-affair. But after a time he began to look pale
and weak; and his comrades, suspecting some serious folly, decided to
interfere. Therefore, one evening, just as he was about to steal away from
the house, an elderly retainer called him aside, and said:-
"Chugoro, my lad, we know that you go out every night and stay away
until early morning, and we have observed that you are looking unwell.
We fear that you are keeping bad company and injuring your health. And
unless you can give a good reason for your conduct, we shall think that
it is our duty to report this matter to the Chief Officer. In any case, since
we are your comrades and friends., it is but right that we should know
why you go out at night, contrary to the custom of this house."
Chugoro appeared to be very much embarrassed and alarmed by these
words. But after a short silence he passed into the garden, followed by
his comrade. When the two found themselves well out of hearing of the
rest, Chugoro stopped, and said:·-
"I will now tell you everything; but I must entreat you to keep my
secret. If you repeat what I tell you, some great misfortune may befall me.
"It was in the early part of last spring-about five months ago-that I
first began to go out at night, on account of a love-affair. One evening,
when I was returning to the yashiki after a visit to my parents, I saw a
woman standing by the riverside, not far from the main gateway. She was
dressed like a person of high rank; and I thought it strange that a woman
so finely dressed should be standing there alone at such an hour. But I
did not think that I had any right to question her; and I was about to
pass her by, without speaking, when she stepped forward and pulled me
by the sleeve. Then I saw that she was very young and handsome. 'Will
you not walk with me as far as the bridge ?' she said; 'I have something
to tell you.' Her voice was very soft and pleasant; and she smiled as she 
14 ?THE STORY OF CHOGORO
spoke; and her smile was hard to resist. So I walked with her toward the
bridge; and on the way she told me that she had often seen me going in
and out of the yashhiki, and had taken a fancy to me. 'I wish to have
you for my husband,' she said;-'if you can like me, we shall be able to
make each other very happy.' I did not know how to answer her; but I
thought her very charming. As we neared the bridge, she pulled my sleeve
again, and led me down the bank to the very edge of the river. 'Come in
with me,' she whispered, and pulled me toward the water. It is deep there,
as you know; and I became all at once afraid of her, and tried to turn
back. She smiled, and caught me by the wrist, and said, 'Oh, you must
never be afraid with me!' And, somehow, at the touch of her hand, I
became more helpless than a child. I felt like a person in a dream who
tries to run, and cannot move hand or foot. Into the deep water she
stepped, and drew me with her; and I neither saw nor heard nor felt
anything more until I found myself walking beside her through what
seemed to be a great palace, full of light. I was neither wet nor cold:
everything around me was dry and warm and beautiful. I could not understand where I was, nor how I had come there. The woman led me by the
hand: we passed through room after room,-through ever so many rooms,
all empty, but very fine,-until we entered into a guest-room of a thousand
mats. Before a great alcove, at the farther end, lights were burning, and
cushions laid as for a feast; but I saw no guests. She led me to the place
of honor, by the alcove, and seated herself in front of me, and said: 'This
is my home: do you think that you could be happy with me here ?' As
she asked the question she smiled; and I thought that her smile was more
beautiful than anything else in the world; and out of my heart I answered,
'Yes .... ' In the same moment I remembered the story of Urashima; and
I imagined that she might be the daughter of a god; but I feared to ask
her any questions .... Presently maid-servants came in, bearing rice-wine
and many dishes, which they set before us. Then she who sat before me
said: 'To-night shall be our bridal night, because you like me; and this is
our wedding-feast.' We pledged ourselves to each other for the time of
seven existences; and after the banquet we were conducted to a bridal
chamber, which had been prepared for us.
"It was yet early in the morning when she awoke me, and said: 'My
dear one, you are now indeed my husband. But for reasons which I cannot
tell you, and which you must not ask, it is necessary that our marriage
remain secret. To keep you here until daybreak would cost both of us
our lives. Therefore do not, I beg of you, feel displeased because I must
now send you back to the house of your lord. You can come to me tonight again, and every night hereafter, at the same hour that we first met.
Wait always for me by the bridge; and you will not have to wait long.
But remember, above all things, that our marriage must be a secret, and
that, if you talk about it, we shall probably be separated forever.'
"I promised to obey her in all things,-remembering the fate of Ura-
),:) ··?
L AH:ADIO HEARN
l).!)'t 15
shima,-and she conducted me through many rooms, all empty and beautiful, to the entrance. There she again took me by the wrist, and everything
suddenly became dark, and I knew nothing more until I found myself
standing alone on the river bank dose to the Naka-no-hashi. When I got
back to the yashiki, the temple bells had not yet begun to ring.
"In the evening I went again to the bridge at the hour she had named,
and I found her waiting for me. She took me with her, as before into the
deep water, and into the wonderful place where we had passed our bridal
night. And every night, since then,, I have met and parted from her in the
same way. To-night she will certainly be waiting for me, and I would
rather die than disappoint her: therefore I must go .... But let me again
entreat you, my friend, never to speak to any one about what I have
told you."
The elder ashigaru was surprised and alarmed by this story. He felt that
Chugoro had told him the truth; and the truth suggested unpleasant possibilities. Probably the whole experience was an illusion, and an illusion
produced by some evil power for a malevolent end. Nevertheless, if really
bewitched, the lad was rather to be pitied than blamed; and any forcible
interference would be likely to result in mischief. So the ashigaru answered kindly:-
"! shall never speak of what you have told me-never, at least, while
you remain alive and well. Go and meet the woman; but-beware of her!
I fear that you are being deceived by some wicked spirit."
Chugoro only smiled at the old man's warning, and hastened away.
Several hours later he reentered the yashiki, with a strangely dejected look.
"Did you meet her?" whispered his comrade. "No," replied Chugoro;
"she was not there. For the first time, she was not there. I think that she
will never meet me again. I did wrong to tell you;-I was very foolish to
break my promise .... " The other vainly tried to console him. Chugoro
lay down, and spoke no word more. He was trembling from head to foot,
as if he had caught a chill.
When the temple bells announced the hour of dawn, Chugoro tried to get
up, and fell back senseless. He was evidently sick,-deathly sick. A Chinese physician was summoned.
"Why, the man has no blood!" exclaimed the doctor, after a careful
examination;-"there is nothing but water in his veins! It will be very
difficult to save him .... What maleficence is this?"
Everything was done that could be done to save Chugoro's life-but in
vain. He died as the sun went down. Then his comrade related the
whole story.
"Ah! I might have suspected as much!" exclaimed the doctor .... "No
power could have saved him. He was not the first whom she destroyed." 
16 ?
?).!)}bll THE S TO RY OF CHOGORO
"Who is she ?-or what is she ?" the ashigaru asked,-"a Fox-Woman?"
"No; she has been haunting this river from ancient time. She loves the
blood of the young. . . . "
"A Serpent-Woman?-A Dragon-Woman?"
"No, no! If you were to see her under that bridge by daylight, she
would appear to you a very loathsome creature."
"But what kind of a creature ?"
"Simply a Frog,-a great and ugly Frog!" 
M. R. jAMES
(I862--I9J6)
Montague Rhodes James, a lifelong bachelor, was a master ghost-story
writer as well as a polyglot scholar, primarily of the medieval world. He
was for many years a fellow at Cambridge University in England until,
in 1914, he was elected provost of Eton.
Though he would not absolutely acknowledge a belief in ghosts, he nevertheless mastered the ghost-story genre. His best-known ghost stories are
"The Ash Tree," "Canon Alberic's Scrapbook, " "Oh Whistle and I'll Corne
to You, My Lad," and, of course, ''Count Magnus," reprinted here. His collections include Ghost Stories of an Antiquary (1 904), Collected Ghost Stories (193 1), A Thin Ghost (1919), and A Warning to the Curious (1 926).
In addition to his achievements as a ghost-story writer, James is important in the history of the horror literature genre because he was an early
appreciator of the talents of Sheridan Le Fanu, a collection of whose
stories (Madame Crowl's Ghost) he edited. Le Fanu was the author of
"Carmilla," an influential early vampire story.
Purists who think a vampire's diet is, by definition, liquid, may object
that "Count Magnus," who does not drink blood, is flying under false
colors in an anthology of vampire fiction. The objection is valid. My
two-part defense must be, first, that "Count Magnus" is such a splendid
example of James's masterful pseudorealistic ghost fiction that I could
not resist including it. Second, though the count does not drink blood,
he does, like every other vampire, suck away the life of his victims.
james's horror tales owe much of their effectiveness to the tension
he is able to create between his realistically described settings and the
supernatural events that take place there. In "Count Magnus" James
slowly, slowly lets his story meander from England to Stockholm, and
from there to Vestergothland. Gently, almost imperceptibly, our attention shifts from what would seem to be the protagonist, Mr. Wraxall,
to the Raback family history, and from that, finally, to Count Magnus himself.
"Count Magnus" borrows from Stoker the technique of keeping his
horrid creature offstage through most of his tale. The supernatural climax
of the story, told in the even tones of a scholarly narration and coming
after so many pages of unsurprising detail, is particularly horrible. As in
other tales of this nature, there is little attempt at metaphor or ambivalence or psychological complexity; the reader is simply meant to be frightened by the unhappy fate of an ordinary man who unwittingly falls prey
to a malevolent vampire. 
COUNT MAGNUS
'
By what means the papers out of which I have made a connected story came into my hands is the last point which the reader will
learn from these pages. But it is necessary to prefix to my extracts from
them a statement of the form in which I possess them.
They consist, then, partly of a series of collections for a book of travels,
such a volume as was a common product of the forties and fifties. Horace
Marryat's Journal of a Residence in Jutland and the Danish Isles is a fair
specimen of the class to which I allude. These books usually treated of
some unknown district on the Continent. They were illustrated with
woodcuts or steel plates. They gave details of hotel accommodation and
of means of communication, such as we now expect to find in any wellregulated guide-book, and they dealt largely in reported conversations
with intelligent foreigners, racy innkeepers, and garrulous peasants. In a
word, they were chatty.
Begun with the idea of furnishing material for such a book, my papers
as they progressed assumed the character of a record of one single personal experience, and this record was continued up to the very eve, almost,
of its termination.
The writer was a Mr. Wraxall. For my knowledge of him I have to
depend entirely on the evidence his writings afford, and from these I
deduce that he was a man past middle age, possessed of some private
means, and very much alone in the world. He had, it seems, no settled
abode in England, but was a denizen of hotels and boarding-houses. It is
probable that he entertained the idea of settling down at some future time
which never came; and I think it also likely that the Pantechnicon fire in
the early seventies must have destroyed a great deal that would have
thrown light on his antecedents, for he refers once or twice to property
of his that was warehoused at that establishment.
It is further apparent that Mr. Wraxall had published a book, and that
it treated of a holiday he had once taken in Brittany. More than this I
cannot say about his work, because a diligent search in bibliographical
works has convinced me that it must have appeared either anonymously
or under a pseudonym.
As to his character, it is not difficult to form some superficial opinion.
He must have been an intelligent and cultivated man. It seems that he
was near being a Fellow of his college at Oxford-Brasenose, as I j udge
from the Calendar. His besetting fault was pretty clearly that of overinquisitiveness, possibly a good fault in a traveler, certainly a fault for
which this traveler paid dearly enough in the end. 
M. R. jAMES ? 19
On what proved to be his last expedition, he was plotting another book.
Scandinavia, a region not widely known to Englishmen forty years ago,
had struck him as an interesting field. He must have alighted on some old
books of Swedish history or memoirs, and the idea had struck him that
there was room for a book descriptive of travel in Sweden, interspersed
with episodes from the history of some of the great Swedish families. He
procured letters of introduction, therefore, to some persons of quality in
Sweden, and set out thither in the early summer of 1 863.
Of his travels in the North there is no need to speak, nor of his residence
of some weeks in Stockholm. I need only mention that some savant resident there put him on the track of an important collection of family
papers belonging to the proprietors of an ancient manor-house in Vestergothland, and obtained for him permission to examine them.
The manor-house, or herrgard, in question is to be called Raback (pronounced something like Roebeck),, though that is not its name. It is one
of the best buildings of its kind in all the country, and the picture of it
in Dahlenberg's Suecia antiqua et moderna, engraved in 1 694, shows it
very much as the tourist may see it today. It was built soon after 1 600,
and is, roughly speaking, very much like an English house of that period
in respect of material-red-brick with stone facings-and style. The man
who built it was a scion of the great house of De Ia Gardie, and his
descendants possess it still. De Ia Gardie is the name by which I will
designate them when mention of !them becomes necessary.
They received Mr. Wraxall with great kindness and courtesy, and
pressed him to stay in the house as long as his researches lasted. But,
preferring to be independent, and mistrusting his powers of conversing in
Swedish, he settled himself at the village inn, which turned out quite
sufficiently comfortable, at any rate during the summer months. This arrangement would entail a short walk daily to and from the manor-house
of something under a mile. The house itself stood in a park, and was
protected-we should say grown up-with large old timber. Near it you
found the walled garden, and then entered a close wood fringing one of
the small lakes with which the whole country is pitted. Then came the
wall of the demesne, and you climbed a steep knoll-a knob of rock
lightly covered with soil-and on the top of this stood the church, fenced
in with tall dark trees. It was a curious building to English eyes. The nave
and aisles were low, and filled with pews and galleries. In the western
gallery stood the handsome old organ, gaily painted, and with silver pipes.
The ceiling was flat, and had been adorned by a seventeenth-century artist
with a strange and hideous "Last Judgment," full of lurid flames, falling
cities, burning ships, crying souls, and brown and smiling demons. Handsome brass coronae hung from the roof; the pulpit was like a doll's-house
covered with little painted wooden cherubs and saints; a stand with three
hour-glasses was hinged to the preacher's desk. Such sights as these may
be seen in many a church in Sweden now, but what distinguished this 
20 ?COUNT M AG NUS
one was an addition to the original building. At the eastern end of the
north aisle the builder of the manor-house had erected a mausoleum for
himself and his family. It was a largish eight-sided building, lighted by a
series of oval windows, and it had a domed roof, topped by a kind of
pumpkin-shaped object rising into a spire, a form in which Swedish architects greatly delighted. The roof was of copper externally, and was painted
black, while the walls, in common with those of the church, were staringly
white. To this mausoleum there was no access from the church. It had a
portal and steps of its own on the northern side.
Past the churchyard the path to the village goes, and not more than
three or four minutes bring you to the inn door.
On the first day of his stay at Raback Mr. Wraxall found the church
door open, and made these notes of the interior which I have epitomized.
Into the mausoleum, however, he could not make his way. He could by
looking through the keyhole j ust descry that there were fine marble effigies
and sarcophagi of copper, and a wealth of armorial ornament, which
made him very anxious to spend some time in investigation.
The papers he had come to examine at the manor-house proved to be
of just the kind he wanted for his book. There were family correspondence, journals, and account-books of the earliest owners of the estate,
very carefully kept and dearly written, full of amusing and picturesque
detail. The first De Ia Gardie appeared in them as a strong and capable
man. Shortly after the building of the mansion there had been a period
of distress in the district, and the peasants had risen and attacked several
chateaux and done some damage. The owner of Raback took a leading
part in suppressing the trouble, and there was reference to executions of
ring-leaders and severe punishments inflicted with no sparing hand.
The portrait of this Magnus de Ia Gardie was one of the best in the
house, and Mr. Wraxall studied it with no little interest after his day's
work. He gives no detailed description of it, but I gather that the face
impressed him rather by its power than by its beauty or goodness; in fact,
he writes that Count Magnus was an almost phenomenally ugly man.
On this day Mr. Wraxall took his supper with the family, and walked
back in the late but still bright evening.
"I must remember," he writes, "to ask the sexton if he can let me into
the mausoleum at the church. He evidently has access to it himself, for I
saw him tonight standing on the steps, and, as I thought, locking or
unlocking the door."
I find that early on the following day Mr. Wraxall had some conversation with his landlord. His setting it down at such length as he does
surprised me at first; but I soon realized that the papers I was reading
were, at least in their beginning, the materials for the book he was meditating, and that it was to have been one of those quasi-journalistic productions which admit of the introduction of an admixture of conversational
matter. 
M. R. jAMES ? 21
His object, he says, was to find out whether any traditions of Count
Magnus de Ia Gardie lingered on in the scenes of that gentleman's activity,
and whether the popular estimate of him were favorable or not. He found
that the Count was decidedly not a favorite. If his tenants came late to
their work on the days which they owed to him as Lord of the Manor,
they were set on the wooden horse., or flogged and branded in the manorhouse yard. One or two cases there were of man who had occupied lands
which encroached on the lord's domain, and whose houses had been mysteriously burnt on a winter's night, with the whole family inside. But what
seemed to dwell on the innkeeper's mind most-for he returned to the
subject more than once-was that the Count had been on the Black Pilgrimage, and had brought something or someone back with him.
You will naturally inquire, as Mr. Wraxall did, what the Black Pilgrimage may have been. But your curiosity on the point must remain unsatisfied for the time being, j ust as his did. The landlord was evidently
unwilling to give a full answer, or indeed any answer, on the point, and,
being called out for a moment, trotted out with obvious alacrity, only
putting his head in at the door a few minutes afterwards to say that he
was called away to Skara, and should not be back till evening.
So Mr. Wraxall had to go unsatisfied to his day's work at the manorhouse. The papers on which he was just then engaged soon put his
thoughts into another channel, for he had to occupy himself with glancing
over the correspondence between Sophia Albertina in Stockholm and her
married cousin Ulrica Leonora at Raback in the years 1 705-10. The letters
were of exceptional interest from the light they threw upon the culture of
that period in Sweden, as anyone can testify who has read the full edition
of them in the publications of the Swedish Historical Manuscripts
Commission.
In the afternoon he had done with these, and after returning the boxes
in which they were kept to their places on the shelf, he proceeded, very
naturally, to take down some of the volumes nearest to them, in order to
determine which of them had best be his principal subject of investigation
next day. The shelf he had hit upon was occupied mostly by a collection
of account-books in the writing of the first Count Magnus. But one among
them was not an account-book, but a book of alchemical and other tracts
in another sixteenth-century hand. Not being very familiar with alchemical
literature, Mr. Wraxall spends much space which he might have spared
in setting out the names and beginnings of the various treatises: The book
of the Phoenix, book of the Thirty Words, book of the Toad, book of
Miriam, Turba philosophorum, and so forth; and then he announces with
a good deal of circumstance his delight at finding, on a leaf originally left
blank near the middle of the book, some writing of Count Magnus himself
headed "Liber nigrae peregrinationis." It is true that only a few lines were
written, but there was quite enough to show that the landlord had that
morning been referring to a belief at least as old as the time of Count 
22 ? C OUNT MAGNUS
Magnus, and probably shared by him. This is the English of what was
written:
"If any man desires to obtain a long life, if he would obtain a faithful
messenger and see the blood of his enemies, it is necessary that he should
first go into the city of Chorazin, and there salute the prince ... " Here
there was an erasure of one word, not very thoroughly done, so that Mr.
Wraxall felt pretty sure that he was right in reading it as aeris ("of the
air"). But there was no more of the text copied, only a line in Latin:
Quaere reliqua hujus materiei inter secretiora. (See the rest of this matter
among the more private things.)
It could not be denied that this threw a rather lurid light upon the
tastes and beliefs of the Count; but to Mr. Wraxall, separated from him
by nearly three centuries, the thought that he might have added to his
general forcefulness alchemy, and to alchemy something like magic, only
made him a more picturesque figure, and when, after a rather prolonged
contemplation of his picture in the hall, Mr. Wraxall set out on his homeward way, his mind was full of the thought of Count Magnus. He had
no eyes for his surroundings, no perception of the evening scents of the
woods or the evening light on the lake; and when all of a sudden he
pulled up short, he was astonished to find himself already at the gate of
the churchyard, and within a few minutes of his dinner. His eyes fell on
the mausoleum.
"Ah," he said, "Count Magnus, there you are. I should dearly like to
see you."
"Like many solitary men," he writes, "I have a habit of talking to
myself aloud; and, unlike some of the Greek and Latin particles, I do not
expect an answer. Certainly, and perhaps fortunately in this case, there
was neither voice nor any that regarded: only the woman who, I suppose,
was cleaning up the church, dropped some metallic object on the floor,
whose clang startled me. Count Magnus, I think, sleeps sound enough."
That same evening the landlord of the inn, who had heard Mr. Wraxall
say that he wished to see the clerk or deacon (as he would be called in
Sweden) of the parish, introduced him to that official in the inn parlor.
A visit to the De Ia Gardie tomb-house was soon arranged for the next
day, and a little general conversation ensued.
Mr. Wraxall, remembering that one function of Scandinavian deacons
is to teach candidates for Confirmation, thought he would refresh his own
memory on a Biblical point.
" Can you tell me," he said, "anything about Chorazin ?"
The deacon seemed startled, but readily reminded him how that village
had once been denounced.
"To be sure," said Mr. Wraxall; "it is, I suppose, quite a ruin now?"
"So I expect," replied the deacon. "I have heard some of our old priests
say that Antichrist is to be born there; and there are tales-"
"Ah! what tales are those ?" Mr. Wraxall put in. 
M. R. jAMES ? 23
"Tales, I was going to say, which I have forgotten," said the deacon;
and soon after that he said good night.
The landlord was now alone, and at Mr. Wraxall's mercy; and that
inquirer was not inclined to spare him.
"Herr Nielsen," he said, "I have found out something about the Black
Pilgrimage. You may as well tell me what you know. What did the Count
bring back with him?"
Swedes are habitually slow, perhaps, in answering, or perhaps the landlord was an exception. I am not sure; but Mr. Wraxall notes that the
landlord spent at least one minute in looking at him before he said anything at all. Then he came close up to his guest, and with a good deal of
effort he spoke:
"Mr. Wraxall, I can tell you this one little tale, and no more-not any
more. You must not ask anything when I have done. In my grandfather's
time-that is, ninety-two years ago-there were two men who said: 'The
Count is dead; we do not care for him. We will go tonight and have a
free hunt in his wood'-the long wood on the hill that you have seen
behind Raback. Well, those that heard them say this, they said: 'No, do
not go; we are sure you will meet with persons walking who should not
be walking. They should be resting, not walking.' These men laughed.
There were no forest-men to keep the wood, because no one wished to
live there. The family were not here at the house. These men could do
what they wished.
"Very well, they go to the wood that night. My grandfather was sitting
here in this room. It was the summer, and a light night. With the window
open, he could see out to the wood, and hear.
"So he sat there, and two or three men with him, and they listened. At
first they hear nothing at all; then they hear someone-you know how
far away it is-they hear someone scream, j ust as if the most inside part
of his soul was twisted out of him. All of them in the room caught hold
of each other, and they sat so for three-quarters of an hour. Then they
hear someone else, only about three hundred ells off. They hear him laugh
out loud: it was not one of those two men that laughed, and, indeed, they
have all of them said that it was not any man at all. After that they hear
a great door shut.
"Then, when it was just light with the sun, they all went to the priest.
They said to him:
" 'Father, put on your gown and your ruff, and come to bury these
men, Anders Bjornsen and Hans Thorbjorn.'
"You understand that they were sure these men were dead. So they
went to the wood-my grandfather never forgot this. He said they were
all like so many dead men themselves. The priest, too, he was in a white
fear. He said when they came to him:
" 'I heard one cry in the night, and I heard one laugh afterwards. If I
cannot forget that, I shall not be able to sleep again.' 
24 ?
?!)YJI COUNT M AGNUS
"So they went to the wood, and they found these men on the edge of
the wood. Hans Thorbjorn was standing with his back against a tree, and
all the time he was pushing with his hands-pushing something away
from him which was not there. So he was not dead. And they led him
away, and took him to the house at Nykjoping, and he died before the
winter; but he went on pushing with his hands. Also Anders Bjornsen was
there; but he was dead. And I tell you this about Anders Bjornsen, that
he was once a beautiful man, but now his face was not there, because
the flesh of it was sucked away off the bones. You understand that? My
grandfather did not forget that. And they laid him on the bier which they
brought, and they put a cloth over his head, and the priest walked before;
and they began to sing the psalm for the dead as well as they could. So,
as they were singing the end of the first verse, one fell down, who was
carrying the head of the bier, and the others looked back, and they saw
that the cloth had fallen off, and the eyes of Anders Bjornsen were looking
up, because there was nothing to close over them. And this they could
not bear. Therefore the priest laid the cloth upon him, and sent for a
spade, and they buried him in that place."
The next day Mr. Wraxall records that the deacon called for him soon
after his breakfast, and took him to the church and mausoleum. He noticed that the key of the latter was hung on a nail just by the pulpit, and
it occurred to him that, as the church door seemed to be left unlocked as
a rule, it would not be difficult for him to pay a second and more private
visit to the monuments if there proved to be more of interest among them
than could be digested at first. The building, when he entered it, he found
not unimposing. The monuments, mostly large erections of the seventeenth
and eighteenth centuries, were dignified if luxuriant, and the epitaphs and
heraldry were copious. The central space of the domed room was occupied
by three copper sarcophagi, covered with finely-engraved ornament. Two
of them had, as is commonly the case in Denmark and Sweden, a large
metal crucifix on the lid. The third, that of Count Magnus, as it appeared,
had, instead of that, a full-length effigy engraved upon it, and round the
edge were several bands of similar ornament representing various scenes.
One was a battle, with cannon belching out smoke, and walled towns,
and troops of pikemen. Another showed an execution. In a third, among
trees, was a man running at full speed, with flying hair and outstretched
hands. After him followed a strange form; it would be hard to say whether
the artist had intended it for a man, and was unable to give the requisite
similitude, or whether it was intentionally made as monstrous as it looked.
In view of the skill with which the rest of the drawing was done, Mr.
Wraxall felt inclined to adopt the latter idea. The figure was unduly short,
and was for the most part muffled in a hooded garment which swept the
ground. The only part of the form which projected from that shelter was
not shaped like any hand or arm. Mr. Wraxall compares it to the tentacle
of a devil-fish, and continues: "On seeing this, I said to myself, 'This, 
M. R. jAMES ? 25
then, which is evidently an allegorical representation of some kind-a
fiend pursuing a hunted soul-may be the origin of the story of Count
Magnus and his mysterious companion. Let us see how the huntsman is
pictured: doubtless it will be a demon blowing his horn.' " But, as it
turned out, there was no such sensational figure, only the semblance of a
cloaked man on a hillock, who stood leaning on a stick, and watching
the hunt with an interest which the engraver had tried to express in his
attitude.
Mr. Wraxall noted the finely-worked and massive steel padlocks-three
in number-which secured the sarcophagus. One of them, he saw, was
detached, and lay on the pavem(?nt. And then, unwilling to delay the
deacon longer or to waste his own working-time, he made his way onward
to the manor-house.
"It is curious," he notes, "how, on retracing a familiar path, one's
thoughts engross one to the absolute exclusion of surrounding objects.
Tonight, for the second time, I had entirely failed to notice where I was
going (I had planned a private visit to the tomb-house to copy the epitaphs), when I suddenly, as it were, awoke to consciousness, and found
myself (as before) turning in at the churchyard gate, and, I believe, singing
or chanting some such words as, 'Are you awake, Count Magnus? Are
you asleep, Count Magnus?' and then something more which I have failed
to recollect. It seemed to me that I must have been behaving in this
nonsensical way for some time."
He found the key of the mausoleum where he had expected to find it,
and copied the greater part of what he wanted; in fact, he stayed until
the light began to fail him.
"I must have been wrong," he writes, "in saying that one of the padlocks of my Count's sarcophagus was unfastened; I see tonight that two
are loose. I picked both up, and laid them carefully on the window-ledge,
after trying unsuccessfully to close them. The remaining one is still firm,
and, though I take it to be a spring lock, I cannot guess how it is opened.
Had I succeeded in undoing it, I am almost afraid I should have taken
the liberty of opening the sarcophagus. It is strange, the interest I feel in
the personality of this, I fear, somewhat ferocious and grim old noble."
The day following was, as it turned out, the last of Mr. Wraxall's stay
at Raback. He received letters connected with certain investments which
made it desirable that he should return to England; his work among the
papers was practically done, and traveling was slow. He decided, therefore, to make his farewells, put some finishing touches to his notes, and
be off.
These finishing touches and farewells, as it turned out, took more time
than he had expected. The hospitable family insisted on his staying to
dine with them-they dined at three-and it was verging on half past six
before he was outside the iron gates of Raback. He dwelt on every step
of his walk by the lake, determined to saturate himself, now that he trod 
26 ?COUNT MAGNUS
it for the last time, in the sentiment of the place and hour. And when he
reached the summit of the churchyard knoll, he lingered for many minutes,
gazing at the limitless prospect of woods near and distant, all dark beneath
a sky of liquid green. When at last he turned to go, the thought struck
him that surely he must bid farewell to Count Magnus as well as the rest
of the De Ia Gardies. The church was but twenty yards away, and he
knew where the key of the mausoleum hung. It was not long before he
was standing over the great copper coffin, and, as usual, talking to himself
aloud: "You may have been a bit of a rascal in your time, Magnus," he
was saying, "but for all that I should like to see you, or, rather-"
"Just at that instant," he says, "I felt a blow on my foot. Hastily enough
I drew it back, and something fell on the pavement with a clash. It was the
third, the last of the three padlocks which had fastened the sarcophagus. I
stooped to pick it up, and-Heaven is my witness that I am writing only
the bare truth-before I had raised myself there was a sound of metal
hinges creaking, and I distinctly saw the lid shifting upwards. I may have
behaved like a coward, but I could not for my life stay for one moment.
I was outside that dreadful building in less time than I can write-almost
as quickly as I could have said-the words; and what frightens me yet
more, I could not turn the key in the lock. As I sit here in my room
noting these facts, I ask myself (it was not twenty minutes ago) whether
that noise of creaking metal continued, and I cannot tell whether it did
or not. I only know that there was something more than I have written
that alarmed me, but whether it was sound or sight I am not able to
remember. What is this that I have done?"
Poor Mr. Wraxall! He set out on his journey to England on the next day,
as he had planned, and he reached England in safety; and yet, as I gather
from his changed hand and inconsequent jottings, a broken man. One of
the several small note-books that have come to me with his papers gives,
not a key to, but a kind of inkling of, his experiences. Much of his journey
was made by canal-boat, and I find not less than six painful attempts to
enumerate and describe his fellow-passengers. The entries are of this kind:
24. Pastor of village in Skane. Usual black coat and soft black hat.
25. Commercial traveler from Stockholm going to Trollhattan. Black
cloak, brown hat.
26. Man in long black cloak, broad-leafed hat, very old-fashioned.
This entry is lined out, and a note added: "Perhaps identical with No.
13. Have not yet seen his face." On referring to No. 13, I find that he is
a Roman priest in a cassock.
The net result of the reckoning is always the same. Twenty-eight people
appear in the enumeration, one being always a man in a long black cloak
and broad hat, and the other a "short figure in dark cloak and hood." 
M. R. jAMES ? 27
On the other hand, it is always noted that only twenty-six passengers
appear at meals, and that the man in the cloak is perhaps absent, and the
short figure is certainly absent.
On reaching England, it appears that Mr. Wraxall landed at Harwich,
and that he resolved at once to put himself out of the reach of some
person or persons whom he never specifies, but whom he had evidently
come to regard as his pursuers. Accordingly he took a vehicle-it was a
closed fly-not trusting the railway and drove across country to the village
of Belchamp St. Paul. It was about nine o'clock on a moonlight August
night when he neared the place. He was sitting forward, and looking out
of the window at the fields and tickets-there was little else to be seen-­
racing past him. Suddenly he came to a cross-road. At the corner two
figures were standing motionless; both were in dark cloaks; the taller one
wore a hat, the shorter a hood. He had no time to see their faces, nor
did they make any motion that he could discern. Yet the horse shied
violently and broke into a gallop, and Mr. Wraxall sank back into his
seat in something like desperation. He had seen them before.
Arrived at Belchamp St. Paul, he was fortunate enough to find a decent
furnished lodging, and for the next twenty-four hours he lived, comparatively speaking, in peace. His last notes were written on this day. They are
too disjointed and ejaculatory to be given here in full, but the substance of
them is clear enough. He is expecting a visit from his pursuers-how or
when he knows not-and his constant cry is "What has he done?" and
"Is there no hope ?" Doctors, he knows, would call him mad, policemen
would laugh at him. The parson is away. What can he do but lock his
door and cry to God?
People still remember last year at Belchamp St. Paul how a strange
gentleman came one evening in August years back; and how the next
morning but one he was found dead, and there was an inquest; and the
jury that viewed the body fainted, seven of 'em did, and none of 'em
wouldn't speak to what they see, and the verdict was visitation of God;
and how the people as kep' the 'ouse moved out that same week, and went
away from that part. But they do not, I think, know that any glimmer of
light has ever been thrown, or could be thrown, on the mystery. It so
happened that last year the little house came into my hands as part of a
legacy. It had stood empty since 1 863, and there seemed no prospect of
letting it; so I had it pulled down, and the papers of which I have given
you an abstract were found in a forgotten cupboard under the window
in the best bedroom. 
F. MARION CRAWFORD
(1854-1909)
Francis Marion Crawford was born in Italy, and was raised both there
and in America. The son of a sculptor father and a novelist mother, he
was educated in Italy and at Cambridge University. In 1 879 he went to
Allahabad, India, to edit the Indian Herald. Crawford then traveled to
the United States to seek work in the literary field with the aid of his
uncle Samuel Ward, a famous gourmet and lobbyist. He later chose to
live in Italy, but remained a U.S. citizen.
Crawford's stay in India provided the inspiration for Mr. Isaacs: A Tale
of Modern India (1 8 82), the story of a diamond merchant whose sale of
a unique stone brings protest from Britain. This was his first novel, and
it marked the beginning of a prosperous career. Crawford's popularity
with his readers has often been overlooked by critics, mostly due to the
fact that his career coincided with those of Mark Twain and Henry james.
Readers of the time, however, seemed to prefer his vivid characterizations
and settings to the "masters' " work. All forty-five of his novels were bestsellers, as were the three collected editions of his work.
Crawford also ventured into other literary genres, and was a critic,
lecturer, playwright, and historian. One of the most important nonfiction
works he authored was The Novel: What It Is (1 893), in which he stated
his belief that the purpose of most novels should be to amuse the reader
from an intellectual standpoint, not to be instructional. This was a point
of contention between himself and other novelists of his day, including
William Dean Howells, and was commonly misinterpreted to mean that
novels should be entertainment and nothing more.
His best works are set in the Italy he loved, including Saracinesca
(1 887), Sant' Ilario (1 889), and Don Orsino (1 892), part of a series about
the effect of social change on an Italian family during the late 1 800s. He
also wrote many unforgettable short stories, among them "The Upper
Berth" (1 894), "The Screaming Skull" (1 91 1), and the story reprinted
here, "For the Blood Is the Life" (1 91 1).
The latter stretches the boundaries of the Classic Adventure Tale by providing a measure of sympathy for its vampire. Its undead revenant, Christina, starts out as an innocent gypsy girl cruelly murdered through no fault
of her own. Although she did not ask for her fate, the now-vampiric Christina poses just as much a threat as any other traditional vampire. 
FOR THE BLOOD IS
THE LIFE
'
We had dined at sunsel on the broad roof of the old tower,
because it was cooler there during the great heat of summer. Besides, the
little kitchen was built at one corner of the great square platform, which
made it more convenient than if the dishes had to be carried down the
steep stone steps, broken in places and everywhere worn with age. The
tower was one of those built all down the west coast of Calabria by
the Emperor Charles V early in the sixteenth century, to keep off the Barbary
pirates, when the unbelievers were allied with Francis I against the Emperor
and the Church. They have gone to ruin, a few still stand intact, and mine
is one of the largest. How it came into my possession ten years ago, and
why I spend a part of each year in it, are matters which do not concern
this tale. The tower stands in one of the loneliest spots in southern Italy,
at the extremity of a curving rocky promontory, which forms a small but
safe natural harbor at the southern extremity of the Gulf of Policastro,
and j ust north of Cape Scalea, the birthplace of Judas Iscariot, according
to the old local legend. The tower stands alone on this hooked spur of
the rock, and there is not a house to be seen within three miles of it.
When I go there I take a couple of sailors, one of whom is a fair cook,
and when I am away it is in charge of a gnomelike little being who was
once a miner and who attached himself to me long ago.
My friend, who sometimes visits me in my summer solitude, is an artist
by profession, a Scandinavian by birth, and a cosmopolitan by force of
circumstances. We had dined at sunset; the sunset glow had reddened and
faded again, and the evening purple steeped the vast chain of the mountains that embrace the deep gulf to eastward and rear themselves higher
and higher toward the south. It was hot, and we sat at the landward
corner of the platform, waiting for the night breeze to come down from
the lower hills. The color sank out of the air, there was a little interval
of deep-gray twilight, and a lamp sent a yellow streak from the open door
of the kitchen, where the men were getting their supper.
Then the moon rose suddenly above the crest of the promontory, flooding the platform and lighting up every little spur of rock and knoll of
grass below us, down to the edge of the motionless water. My friend
lighted his pipe and sat looking at a spot on the hillside. I knew that he
was looking at it, and for a long time past I had wondered whether he
would ever see anything there that would fix his attention. I knew that
spot well. It was clear that he was interested at last, though it was a long 
30 ?
?):)}!JI FoR THE BLOOD Is THE L IFE
time before he spoke. Like most painters, he trusts t o h i s own eyesight,
as a lion trusts his strength and a stag his speed, and he is always disturbed
when he cannot reconcile what he sees with what he believes that he
ought to see.
"It's strange," he said. "Do you see that little mound j ust on this side
of the boulder?"
"Yes," I said, and I guessed what was coming.
"It looks like a grave," observed Holger.
"Very true. It does look like a grave."
"Yes," continued my friend, his eyes still fixed on the spot. "But the
strange thing is that I see the body lying on the top of it. Of course,"
continued Holger, turning his head on one side as artists do, "it must be
an effect of light. In the first place, it is not a grave at all. Secondly, if it
were, the body would be inside and not outside. Therefore, it's an effect
of the moonlight. Don't you see it?"
"Perfectly; I always see it on moonlight nights."
"It doesn't seem to interest you much," said Bolger.
"On the contrary, it does interest me, though I am used to it. You're
not so far wrong, either. The mound is really a grave."
"Nonsense!" cried Holger, incredulously. "I suppose you'll tell me what
I see lying on it is really a corpse!"
"No," I answered, "it's not. I know, because I have taken the trouble
to go down and see."
"Then what is it?" asked Holger.
"It's nothing."
"You mean that it's an effect of light, I suppose ?"
"Perhaps it is. But the inexplicable part of the matter is that it makes
no difference whether the moon is rising or setting, or waxing or waning.
If there's any moonlight at all, from east or west or overhead, so long as
it shines on the grave you can see the outline of the body on top."
Holger stirred up his pipe with the point of his knife, and then used
his finger for a stopper. When the tobacco burned well he rose from
his chair.
"If you don't mind," he said, "I'll go down and take a look at it."
He left me, crossed the roof, and disappeared down the dark steps.
did not move, but sat looking down until he came out of the tower below.
I heard him humming an old Danish song as he crossed the open space
in the bright moonlight, going straight to the mysterious mound. When
he was ten paces from it, Holger stopped short, made two steps forward,
and then three or four backward, and then stopped again. I knew what
that meant. He had reached the spot where the Thing ceased to be visible-where, as he would have said, the effect of light changed.
Then he went on till he reached the mound and stood upon it. I could
see the Thing still, but it was no longer lying down; it was on its knees
now, winding its white arms round Bolger's body and looking up into 
F. MARION C RAWFORD ? 31
his face. A cool breeze stirred my hair at that moment, as the night
wind began to come down from the hills, but it felt like a breath from
another world.
The Thing seemed to be trying to climb to its feet, helping itself up by
Holger's body while he stood upright, quite unconscious of it and apparently looking toward the tower, which is very picturesque when the moonlight falls upon it on that side.
"Come along!" I shouted. "Don't stay there all night!"
It seemed to me that he moved reluctantly as he stepped from the
mound, or else with difficulty. That was it. The Thing's arms were still
round his waist, but its feet could not leave the grave. As he came slowly
forward it was drawn and lengthened like a wreath of mist, thin and
white, till I saw distinctly that Holger shook himself, as a man does who
feels a chill. At the same instant a little wail of pain came to me on the
breeze-it might have been the cry of the small owl that lives among the
rocks-and the misty presence floated swiftly back from Holger's advancing figure and lay once more at its length upon the mound.
Again I felt the cool breeze in my hair, and this time an icy thrill of
dread ran down my spine. I remembered very well that I had once gone
down there alone in the moonlight; that presently, being near, I had seen
nothing; that, like Holger, I had gone and had stood upon the mound;
and I remembered how, when I came back sure that there was nothing
there, I had felt the sudden conviction that there was something after all
if I would only look behind me. I remembered the strong temptation to
look back, a temptation I had resisted as unworthy of a man of sense,
until, to get rid of it, I had shaken myself just as Holger did.
And now I knew that those white, misty arms had been round me too;
I knew it in a flash, and I shuddered as I remembered that I had heard
the night owl then too. But it had not been the night owl. It was the cry
of the Thing.
I refilled my pipe and poured out a cup of strong southern wine; in less
than a minute Holger was seated beside me again.
"Of course there's nothing there," he said, "but it's creepy, all the same.
Do you know, when I was coming back I was so sure that there was
something behind me that I wanted to turn round and look? It was an
effort not to."
He laughed a little, knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and poured
himself out some wine. For a while neither of us spoke, and the moon
rose higher, and we both looked at the Thing that lay on the mound.
"You might make a story about that," said Holger after a long time.
"There is one," I answered. "If you're not sleepy, I'll tell it to you."
"Go ahead," said Holger, who hkes stories.
Old Alario was dying up there in the village behind the hill. You remember him, I have no doubt. They say that he made his money by selling 
32 ?
)11}-.IJI FoR THE Btooo Is THE LIFE
sham Jewelry in South America, and escaped with his gains when he was
found out. Like all those fellows, if they bring anything back with them,
he at once set to work to enlarge his house; and, as there are no masons
here, he sent all the way to Paola for two workmen. They were a roughlooking pair of scoundrels-a Neapolitan who had lost one eye and a
Sicilian with an old scar half an inch deep across his left cheek. I often
saw them, for on Sundays they used to come down here and fish off the
rocks. When Alario caught the fever that killed him the masons were still
at work. As he had agreed that part of their pay should be their board
and lodging, he made them sleep in the house. His wife was dead, and
he had an only son called Angelo, who was a much better sort than
himself. Angelo was to marry the daughter of the richest man in the
village, and, strange to say, though the marriage was arranged by their
parents, the young people were said to be in love with each other.
For that matter, the whole village was in love with Angelo, and among
the rest a wild, good-looking creature called Cristina, who was more like
a gypsy than any girl I ever saw about here. She had very red lips and
very black eyes, she was built like a greyhound, and had the tongue of
the devil. But Angelo did not care a straw for her. He was rather a simpleminded fellow, quite different from his old scoundrel of a father, and
under what I should call normal circumstances I really believe that he
would never have looked at any girl except the nice plump little creature,
with a fat dowry, whom his father meant him to marry. But things turned
up which were neither normal nor natural.
On the other hand, a very handsome young shepherd from the hills
above Maratea was in love with Cristina, who seems to have been quite
indifferent to him. Cristina had no regular means of subsistence, but she
was a good girl and willing to do any work or go on errands to any
distance for the sake of a loaf of bread or a mess of beans, and permission
to sleep under cover. She was especially glad when she could get something to do about the house of Angelo's father. There is no doctor in the
village, and when the neighbors saw that old Alario was dying they sent
Cristina to Scalea to fetch one. That was late in the afternoon, and if they
had waited so long, it was because the dying miser refused to allow any
such extravagance while he was able to speak. But while Cristina was
gone, matters grew rapidly worse, the priest was brought to the bedside,
and when he had done what he could he gave it as his opinion to the
bystanders that the old man was dead, and left the house.
You know these people. They have a physical horror of death. Until
the priest spoke, the room had been full of people. The words were hardly
out of his mouth before it was empty. It was night now. They hurried
down the dark steps and out into the street.
Angelo was away, Cristina had not come back-the simple woman
servant who had nursed the sick man fled with the rest, and the body
was left alone in the flickering light of the earthen oil lamp. 
F. MARION C RAWFORD ? 33
Five minutes later two men looked in cautiously and crept forward
toward the bed. They were the one-eyed Neapolitan mason and his Sicilian
companion. They knew what they wanted. In a moment they had dragged
from under the bed a small but heavy iron-bound box, and long before
any one thought of coming back to the dead man they had left the house
and the village under cover of the darkness. It was easy enough, for
Alario's house is the last toward the gorge which leads down here, and
the thieves merely went out by the back door, got over the stone wall,
and had nothing to risk after that except the possibility of meeting some
belated countryman, which was very small indeed, since few of the people
use that path. They had a mattock and shovel, and they made their way
here without accident.
I am telling you this story as it must have happened, for, of course,
there were no witnesses to this part of it. The men brought the box down
by the gorge, intending to bury it until they should be able to come back
and take it away in a boat. They must have been clever enough to guess
that some of the money would be in paper notes, for they would otherwise
have buried it on the beach in the wet sand, where it would have been
much safer. But the paper would have rotted if they had been obliged to
leave it there long, so they dug their hole down there, close to that boulder. Yes, just where the mound is now.
Cristina did not find the doctor in Scalea, for he had been sent for from
a place up the valley, halfway to San Domenico. If she had found him,
he would have come on his mule by the upper road, which is smoother
but much longer. But Cristina took the short cut by the rocks, which
passes about fifty feet above the mound, and goes round that corner. The
men were digging when she passed, and she heard them at work. It would
not have been like her to go by w1ithout finding out what the noise was,
for she was never afraid of anything in her life, and, besides, the fishermen
sometimes came ashore here at night to get a stone for an anchor or to
gather sticks to make a little fire. The night was dark, and Cristina probably came close to the two men before she could see what they were doing.
She knew them, of course, and they knew her, and understood instantly
that they were in her power. There was only one thing to be done for
their safety, and they did it. They knocked her on the head, they dug the
hole deep, and they buried her quickly with the iron-bound chest. They
must have understood that their only chance of escaping suspicion lay in
getting back to the village before their absence was noticed, for they
returned immediately, and were found half an hour later gossiping quietly
with the man who was making Alario's coffin. He was a crony of theirs,
and had been working at the repairs in the old man's house. So far as I
have been able to make out, the only persons who were supposed to
know where Alario kept his treasure were Angelo and the one woman
servant I have mentioned. Angelo was away; it was the woman who
discovered the theft. 
34
'>,':) ··?
i )i) t
;..- FoR THE BLooo Is THE LIFE
It is easy enough to understand why no one else knew where the money
was. The old man kept his door locked and the key in his pocket when
he was out, and did not let the woman enter to clean the place unless he
was there himself. The whole village knew that he had money somewhere,
however, and the masons had probably discovered the whereabouts of
the chest by climbing in at the window in his absence. If the old man had
not been delirious until he lost consciousness, he would have been in
frightful agony of mind for his riches. The faithful woman servant forgot
their existence only for a few moments when she fled with the rest, overcome by the horror of death. Twenty minutes had not passed before she
returned with the two hideous old hags who are always called in to
prepare the dead for burial. Even then she had not at first the courage to
go near the bed with them, but she made a pretense of dropping something, went down on her knees as if to find it, and looked under the
bedstead. The walls of the room were newly whitewashed down to the
floor, and she saw at a glance that the chest was gone. It had been there
in the afternoon, it had therefore been stolen in the short interval since
she had left the room.
There are no carabineers stationed in the village; there is not so much
as a municipal watchman, for there is no municipality. There never was
such a place, I believe. Scalea is supposed to look after it in some mysterious way, and it takes a couple of hours to get anybody from there. As
the old woman had lived in the village all her life, it did not even occur
to her to apply to any civil authority for help. She simply set up a howl
and ran through the village in the dark, screaming out that her dead
master's house had been robbed. Many of the people looked out, but at
first no one seemed inclined to help her. Most of them, judging her by
themselves, whispered to each other that she had probably stolen the
money herself. The first man to move was the father of the girl whom
Angelo was to marry; having collected his household, all of whom felt a
personal interest in the wealth which was to have come into the family,
he declared it to be his opinion that the chest had been stolen by the two
journeyman masons who lodged in the house. He headed a search for
them, which naturally began in Alario's house and ended in the carpenter's
workshop, where the thieves were found discussing a measure of wine
with the carpenter over the half-finished coffin, by the light of one earthen
lamp filled with oil and tallow. The search party at once accused the
delinquents of the crime, and threatened to lock them up in the cellar till
the carabineers could be fetched from Scalea. The two men looked at each
other for one moment, and then without the slightest hesitation they put
out the single light, seized the unfinished coffin between them, and using
it as a sort of battering ram, dashed upon their assailants in the dark. In
a few moments they were beyond pursuit.
That is the end of the first part of the story. The treasure had disappeared, and as no trace of it could be found the people naturally supposed 
F. MARION C RAWFORD ? 35
that the thieves had succeeded in carrying it off. The old man was buried,
and when Angelo came back at last he had to borrow money to pay for
the miserable funeral, and had some difficulty in doing so. He hardly
needed to be told that in losing his inheritance he had lost his bride. In
this part of the world marriages are made on strictly business principles,
and if the promised cash is not forthcoming on the appointed day the
bride or the bridegroom whose parents have failed to produce it may as
well take themselves off, for there will be no wedding. Poor Angelo knew
that well enough. His father had been possessed of hardly any land, and
now that the hard cash which he had brought from South America was
gone, there was nothing left but debts for the building materials that were
to have been used for enlarging and improving the old house. Angelo was
beggared, and the nice plump little creature who was to have been his
turned up her nose at him in the most approved fashion. As for Cristina,
it was several days before she was missed, for no one remembered that
she had been sent to Scalea for the doctor, who had never come. She
often disappeared in the same way for days together, when she could find
a little work here and there at the distant farms among the hills. But when
she did not come back at all, people began to wonder, and at last made
up their minds that she had connived with the masons and had escaped
with them.
I paused and emptied my glass.
"That sort of thing could not happen anywhere else," observed Holger,
filling his everlasting pipe again. "It is wonderful what a natural charm
there is about murder and sudden death in a romantic country like this.
Deeds that would be simply brutal and disgusting anywhere else become
dramatic and mysterious because this is Italy and we are living in a genuine tower of Charles V built against genuine Barbary pirates."
"There's something in that," I admitted. Holger is the most romantic
man in the world inside of himsel:f, but he always thinks it necessary to
explain why he feels anything.
"I suppose they found the poor girl's body with the box," he said
presently.
"As it seems to interest you," I answered, "I'll tell you the rest of
the story."
The moon had risen high by this time; the outline of the Thing on the
mound was clearer to our eyes than before.
The village very soon settled down to its small, dull life. No one missed
old Alario, who had been away so much on his voyages to South America
that he had never been a familiar figure in his native place. Angelo lived
in the half-finished house, and because he had no money to pay the old
woman servant she would not stay with him, but once in a long time she
would come and wash a shirt for him for old acquaintance' sake. Besides 
>,':) ··?
36 \)i) ,..-- ( FoR THE B Looo Is THE LrFE
the house, he had inherited a small patch of ground at some distance
from the village; he tried to cultivate it, but he had no heart in the work,
for he knew he could never pay the taxes on it and on the house, which
would certainly be confiscated by the Government, or seized for the debt
of the building material, which the man who had supplied it refused to
take back.
Angelo was very unhappy. So long as his father had been alive and
rich, every girl in the village had been in love with him; but that was all
changed now. It had been pleasant to be admired and courted, and invited
to drink wine by fathers who had girls to marry. It was hard to be stared
at coldly, and sometimes laughed at because he had been robbed of his
inheritance. He cooked his miserable meals for himself, and from being
sad became melancholy and morose.
At twilight, when the day's work was done, instead of hanging about
in the open space before the church with young fellows of his own age,
he took to wandering in lonely places on the outskirts of the village till
it was quite dark. Then he slunk home and went to bed to save the
expense of a light. But in those lonely twilight hours he began to have
strange waking dreams. He was not always alone, for often when he sat
on the stump of a tree, where the narrow path turns down the gorge, he
was sure that a woman came up noiselessly over the rough stones, as if
her feet were bare; and she stood under a clump of chestnut trees only
half a dozen yards down the path, and beckoned to him without speaking.
Though she was in the shadow he knew that her lips were red, and that
when they parted a little and smiled at him she showed two small sharp
teeth. He knew this at first rather than saw it, and he knew that it was
Cristina, and that she was dead. Yet he was not afraid; he only wondered
whether it was a dream, for he thought that if he had been awake he
should have been frightened.
Besides; the dead woman had red lips, and that could only happen in
a dream. Whenever he went near the gorge after sunset she was already
there waiting for him, or else she very soon appeared, and he began to
be sure that she came a little nearer to him every day. At first he had only
been sure of her blood-red mouth, but now each feature grew distinct, and
the pale face looked at him with deep and hungry eyes.
It was the eyes that grew dim. Little by little he came to know that
some day the dream would not end when he turned away to go home,
but would lead him down the gorge out of which the vision rose. She
was nearer now when she beckoned to him. Her cheeks were not livid
like those of the dead, but pale with starvation, with the furious and
unappeased physical hunger of her eyes that devoured him. They feasted
on his soul and cast a spell over him, and at last they were close to his
own and held them. He could not tell whether her breath was as hot as
fire or as cold as ice; he could not tell whether her red lips burned his or
froze them, or whether her five fingers on his wrists seared scorching scars 
F. MARION C RAWFO RD llli:2 37
or bit his flesh like frost; he could not tell whether he was awake or
asleep, whether she was alive or dead, but he knew that she loved him,
she alone of all creatures, earthly or unearthly, and her spell had power
over him.
When the moon rose high that night the shadow of that Thing was not
alone down there upon the mound.
Angelo awoke in the cool dawn, drenched with dew and chilled through
flesh, and blood, and bone. He opened his eyes to the faint gray light,
and saw the stars still shining overhead. He was very weak, and his heart
was beating so slowly that he was almost like a man fainting. Slowly he
turned his head on the mound, as on a pillow, but the other face was not
there. Fear seized him suddenly, a fear unspeakable and unknown; he
sprang to his feet and fled up the gorge, and he never looked behind him
until he reached the door of the house on the outskirts of the village.
Drearily he went to his work that day, and wearily the hours dragged
themselves after the sun, till at laslt he touched the sea and sank, and the
great sharp hills above Maratea turned purple against the dove-colored
eastern sky.
Angelo shouldered his heavy hoe and left the field. He felt less tired
now than in the morning when he had begun to work, but he promised
himself that he would go horne without lingering by the gorge, and eat
the best supper he could get himself, and sleep all night in his bed like a
Christian man. Not again would he be tempted down the narrow way by
a shadow with red lips and icy breath; not again would he dream that
dream of terror and delight. He was near the village now; it was half an
hour since the sun had set, and the cracked church bell sent little discordant echoes across the rocks and ravines to tell all good people that the
day was done. Angelo stood still a moment where the path forked, where
it led toward the village on the left, and down to the gorge on the right,
where a clump of chestnut trees overhung the narrow way. He stood still
a minute, lifting his battered hat from his head and gazing at the fastfading sea westward, and his lips moved as he silently repeated the familiar evening prayer. His lips moved, but the words that followed them in
his brain lost their meaning and turned into others, and ended in a name
that he spoke aloud-Cristina! With the name, the tension of his will
relaxed suddenly, reality went out and the dream took him again and
bore him on swiftly and surely like a man walking in his sleep, down,
down, by the steep path in the gathering darkness. And as she glided
beside him, Cristina whispered strange sweet things in his ear, which
somehow, if he had been awake, he knew that he could not quite have
understood; but now they were the most wonderful words he had ever
heard in his l ife. And she kissed him also, but not upon his mouth. He
felt her sharp kisses upon his white throat, and he knew that her lips
were red. So the wild dream sped on through twilight and darkness and
moonrise, and all the glory of the summer's night. But in the chilly dawn 
38 ').D :2 FoR THE Br.oon Is THE L IFE
he lay as one half dead upon the mound down there, recalling and not
recalling, drained of his blood, yet strangely longing to give those red lips
more. Then came the fear, the awful nameless panic, the mortal horror
that guards the confines of the world we see not, neither know of as we
know of other things, but which we feel when its icy chill freezes our
bones and stirs our hair with the touch of a ghostly hand. Once more
Angelo sprang from the mound and fled up the gorge in the breaking day,
but his step was less sure this time, and he panted for breath as he ran;
and when he came to the bright spring of water that rises halfway up the
hillside, he dropped upon his knees and hands and plunged his whole face
in and drank as he had never drunk before-for it was the thirst of the
wounded man who has lain bleeding all night long upon the battlefield.
She had him fast now, and he could not escape her, but would come
to her every evening at dusk until she had drained him of his last drop
of blood. It was in vain that when the day was done he tried to take
another turning and to go home by a path that did not lead near the
gorge. It was in vain that he made promises to himself each morning at
dawn when he climbed the lonely way up from the shore to the village.
It was all in vain, for when the sun sank burning into the sea, and the
coolness of the evening stole out as from a hiding-place to delight the
weary world, his feet turned toward the old way, and she was waiting
for him in the shadow under the chestnut trees; and then all happened as
before, and she fell to kissing his white throat even as she flitted lightly
down the way, winding one arm about him. And as his blood failed, she
grew more hungry and more thirsty every day, and every day when he
awoke in the early dawn it was harder to rouse himself to the effort of
climbing the steep path to the village; and when he went to his work his
feet dragged painfully, and there was hardly strength in his arms to wield
the heavy hoe. He scarcely spoke to any one now, but the people said he
was "consuming himself" for love of the girl he was to have married
when he lost his inheritance; and they laughed heartily at the thought, for
this is not a very romantic country. At this time, Antonio, the man who
stays here to look after the tower, returned from a visit to his people,
who live near Salerno. He had been away all the time since before Alario's
death and knew nothing of what had happened. He has told me that he
came back late in the afternoon and shut himself up in the tower to eat
and sleep, for he was very tired. It was past midnight when he awoke,
and when he looked out the waning moon was rising over the shoulder
of the hill. He looked out toward the mound, and he saw something, and
he did not sleep again that night. When he went out again in the morning
it was broad daylight, and there was nothing to be seen on the mound
but loose stones and driven sand. Yet he did not go very near it; he
went straight up the path to the village and directly to the house of the
old priest. 
I )'') .-;(
1 )\1 c F. MARION CRAWFORD \,..., 39
"I have seen an evil thing this night," he said; "I have seen how the
dead drink the blood of the living. And the blood is the life."
"Tell me what you have seen," said the priest in reply.
Antonio told him everything he had seen.
"You must bring your book and your holy water tonight," he added.
"I will be here before sunset to go down with you, and if it pleases your
reverence to sup with me while we wait, I will make ready."
"I will come," the priest answered, "for I have read in old books of
these strange beings which are neither quick nor dead, and which lie ever
fresh in their graves, stealing out in the dusk to taste life and blood."
Antonio cannot read, but he was glad to see that the priest understood
the business; for, of course, the books must have instructed him as to the
best means of quieting the half-living Thing forever.
So Antonio went away to his work, which consists largely in sitting on
the shady side of the tower, when he is not perched upon a rock with a
fishing line catching nothing. But on that day he went twice to look at
the mound in the bright sunlight, and he searched round and round for
some hole through which the being might get in and out; but he found
none. When the sun began to sink and the air was cooler in the shadows,
he went up to fetch the old priest, carrying a little wicker basket with
him; and in this they placed a bottle of holy water, and the basin, and
sprinkler, and the stole which the priest would need; and they came down
and waited in the door of the tower till it should be dark. But while the
light still lingered very gray and faint, they saw something moving, j ust
there, two figures, a man's that walked, and a woman's that flitted beside
him, and while her head lay on his shoulder she kissed his throat. The
priest has told me that, too, and that his teeth chattered and he grasped
Antonio's arm. The vision passed and disappeared into the shadow. Then
Antonio got the leathern flask of strong liquor, which he kept for great
occasions, and poured such a draught as made the old man feel almost
young again; and he got the lantnn, and his pick and shovel, and gave
the priest his stole to put on and the holy water to carry, and they went
out together toward the spot where the work was to be done. Antonio
says that in spite of the rum his own knees shook together, and the priest
stumbled over his Latin. For when they were yet a few yards from the
mound the flickering light of the lantern fell upon Angelo's white face,
unconscious as if in sleep, and on his upturned throat, over which a very
thin red line of blood trickled down into his collar; and the flickering
light of the lantern played upon another face that looked up from the
feast-upon two deep, dead eyes that saw in spite of death-upon parted
lips redder than life itself-upon two gleaming teeth on which glistened
a rosy drop. Then the priest, good old man, shut his eyes tight and showered holy water before him, and his cracked voice rose almost to a scream;
and then Antonio, who is no coward after all, raised his pick in one hand
and the lantern in the other, as he sprang forward, not knowing what the 
40 l)?l :z 1-? FoR THE B Looo Is THE LIFE
end should be; and then he swears that he heard a woman's cry, and the
Thing was gone, and Angelo lay alone on the mound unconscious, with
the red line on his throat and the beads of deathly sweat on his cold
forehead. They lifted him, half-dead as he was, and laid him on the ground
close by! then Antonio went to work, and the priest helped him, though
he was old and could not do much; and they dug deep, and at last
Antonio, standing in the grave, stooped down with his lantern to see what
he might see.
His hair used to be dark brown, with grizzled streaks about the temples;
in less than a month from that day he was as gray as a badger. He was
a miner when he was young, and most of these fellows have seen ugly
sights now and then, when accidents have happened, but he had never
seen what he saw that night-that Thing which is neither alive nor dead,
that Thing that will abide neither above ground nor in the grave. Antonio
had brought something with him which the priest had not noticed. He
had made it that afternoon-a sharp stake shaped from a piece of tough
old driftwood. He had it with him now, and he had his heavy pick, and
he had taken the lantern down into the grave. I don't think any power
on earth could make him speak of what happened then, and the old priest
was too frightened to look in. He says he heard Antonio breathing like a
wild beast, and moving as if he were fighting with something almost as
strong as himself; and he heard an evil sound also, with blows, as of
something violently driven through flesh and bone; and then the most
awful sound of all-a woman's shriek, the unearthly scream of a woman
neither dead nor alive, but buried deep for many days. And he, the poor
old priest, could only rock himself as he knelt there in the sand, crying
aloud his prayers and exorcisms to drown these dreadful sounds. Then
suddenly a small iron-bound chest was thrown up and rolled over against
the old man's knee, and in a moment more Antonio was beside him, his
face as white as tallow in the flickering light of the lantern, shoveling the
sand and pebbles into the grave with furious haste, and looking over the
edge till the pit was half full; and the priest had said that there was much
fresh blood on Antonio's hands and on his clothes.
I had come to the end of my story. Holger finished his wine and leaned
back in his chair.
"So Angelo got his own again," he said. "Did he marry the prim and
plump young person to whom he had been betrothed?"
"No; he had been badly frightened. He went to South America, and
has not been heard of since."
"And that poor thing's body is there still, I suppose," said Holger. "Is
it quite dead yet, I wonder ?"
I wonder, too. But whether it is dead or alive, I should hardly care to
see it, even in broad daylight.
Antonio is as gray as a badger, and he has never been quite the same
man since that night. 
AUGUST DERLETH
(1909-1971)
August Derleth was born on February 24, 1 909, in Sauk City, Wisconsin,
where he resided until his death on July 4, 1 971. His first story, "Bat's
Belfry, " was published in Weird Tales when he was seventeen. Derleth
was noted for his many novels wtth Wisconsin settings, including Bright
Journey (1 940). His most widely known and acclaimed written work is
Prairie Saga, a series of novels depicting life in a Wisconsin community
(modeled after Sauk City) from 1 830 to the mid-twentieth century, including Still is the Summer Night (1 93 7), Wind over Wisconsin (1 938), and
Restless is the River (1 9 3 9). He also wrote four volumes of poetry about
the region.
A mystery and science fiction writer and editor, Derleth is also known
for his popularization of the work of H. P. Lovecraft through his publishing company Arkham House, which he founded in 1 939. While publishing
the works of such masters as Ray Bradbury, Robert B loch, and Stanley
McNail, he also wrote his own work in a variety of styles. Derleth was
so prolific a writer, he used several pseudonyms to avoid betraying the
number of stories that flowed from his pen. Derleth authored a series of
murder mysteries featuring a detective, similar to Sherlock Holmes, named
Solar Pons. He wrote 1 52 short stories and ten novels in an epic meant
to rival Balzac's Human Comedy. Among Derleth's other writings are
three short stories, "The Mask of Cthulhu" (1 958), "The Trail of
Cthulhu" (1 962), and a collection called Tales of the Cthulhu Mythos
(1 969), all based on Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos, an invented horror folk
mythology of primordial and evil godlike beings from an ancient world
who still survive and practice their abominable rites in hidden corners of
our world. He also edited a great many anthologies, both science fiction
and horror, including Strange Ports of Call (1 948) and Who Knocks?
(1 946).
"The Drifting Snow, " included here, is a surprisingly poetic tale, very
unlike the melodramatic and breathless Lovecraftian fiction that Derleth
admired (and sometimes wrote). There is a delicate lyricism in his conception of a snow vampire who kills with tiny, deadly hands, which adds a
particular chill to this effective variation on the theme of evil vampires
versus endangered mortals. 
THE DRIFTING SNOW
Aunt Mary's advancing footsteps halted suddenly, short of the
table, and Clodetta turned to see what was keeping her. She was standing
very rigidly, her eyes fixed upon the French windows j ust opposite the
door through which she had entered, her cane held stiffly before her.
Clodetta shot a quick glance across the table toward her husband,
whose attention had also been drawn to his aunt; his face vouchsafed her
nothing. She turned again to find that the old lady had transferred her gaze
to her, regarding her stonily and in silence. Clodetta felt uncomfortable.
"Who withdrew the curtains from the west windows?"
Clodetta flushed, remembering. "I did, Aunt. I'm sorry. I forgot about
your not wanting them drawn away."
The old lady made an odd, grunting sound, shifting her gaze once again
to the French windows. She made a barely perceptible movement, and
Lisa ran forward from the shadow of the hall, where she had been regarding the two at table with stern disapproval. The servant went directly to
the west windows and drew the curtains.
Aunt Mary came slowly to the table and took her place at its head.
She put her cane against the side of her chair, pulled at the chain about
her neck so that her lorgnette lay in her lap, and looked from Clodetta
to her nephew, Ernest.
Then she fixed her gaze on the empty chair at the foot of the table,
and spoke without seeming to see the two beside her.
"I told both of you that none of the curtains over the west windows
was to be withdrawn after sundown, and you must have noticed that
none of those windows has been for one instant uncovered at night. I
took especial care to put you in rooms facing east, and the sitting-room
is also in the east."
"I'm sure Clodetta didn't mean to go against your wishes, Aunt Mary,"
said Ernest abruptly.
"No, of course not, Aunt."
The old lady raised her eyebrows, and went on impassively. "I didn't
think it wise to explain why I made such a request. I'm not going to
explain. But I do want to say that there is a very definite danger in
drawing away the curtains. Ernest has heard that before, but you, Clodetta, have not."
Clodetta shot a startled glance at her husband. The old lady caught it,
and said, "It's all very well to believe that my mind's wandering or that
I'm getting eccentric, but I shouldn't advise you to be satisfied with that."
A young man came suddenly into the room and made for the seat at 
AucusT DERLETH ? 43
the foot of the table, into which he flung himself with an almost inaudible
greeting to the other three.
"Late again, Henry," said the old lady.
Henry mumbled something and began hurriedly to eat. The old lady
sighed, and began presently to eat also, whereupon Clodetta and Ernest
did likewise. The old servant, who had continued to linger behind Aunt
Mary's chair, now withdrew, not without a scornful glance at Henry.
Clodetta looked up after a while and ventured to speak, "You aren't
as isolated as I thought you might be up here, Aunt Mary."
"We aren't, my dear, what with telephones and cars and all. But only
twenty years ago it was quite a different thing, I can tell you." She smiled
reminiscently and looked at Ernest. "Your grandfather was living then,
and many's the time he was snowbound with no way to let anybody
know."
"Down in Chicago when they speak of 'up north' or the 'Wisconsin
woods' it seems very far away," said Clodetta.
"Well, it is far away," put in Henry, abruptly. "And, Aunt, I hope
you've made some provision in case we're locked in here for a day or
two. It looks like snow outside, and the radio says a blizzard's coming."
The old lady grunted and looked at him. "Ha, Henry-you're overly
concerned, it seems to me. I'm afraid you've been regretting this trip ever
since you set foot in my house. If you're worrying about a snowstorm, I
can have Sam drive you down to Wausau, and you can be in Chicago
tomorrow."
"Of course not."
Silence fell, and presently the old lady called gently, "Lisa," and the
servant came into the room to help her from her chair, though, as Clodetta
had previously said to her husband, "She didn't need help."
From the doorway, Aunt Mary bade them all good-night, looking impressively formidable with her cane in one hand and her unopened lorgnette in the other, and vanished into the dusk of the hall, from which
her receding footsteps sounded together with those of the servant, who
was seldom seen away from her. These two were alone in the house most
of the time, and only very brief periods when the old lady had up her
nephew Ernest, "dear John's boy," or Henry, of whose father the old lady
never spoke, helped to relieve the pleasant somnolence of their quiet lives.
Sam, who usually slept in the garage, did not count.
Clodetta looked nervously at her husband, but it was Henry who said
what was uppermost in their thoughts.
"I think she's losing her mind," he declared matter-of-factly. Cutting
off Clodetta's protest on her lips, he got up and went into the sittingroom, from which came presently the strains of music from the radio.
Clodetta fingered her spoon idlly and finally said, "I do think she is a
little queer, Ernest."
Ernest smiled tolerantly. "No, I don't think so. I've an idea why she 
44
keeps the west windows covered. My grandfather died out there-he was
overcome by the cold one night, and froze on the slope of the hill. I don't
rightly know how it happened-! was away at the time. I suppose she
doesn't like to be reminded of it."
"But where's the danger she spoke of, then ?"
He shrugged. "Perhaps it lies in her-she might be affected and affect
us in turn." He paused for an instant, and finally added, "I suppose she
does seem a little strange to you-but she was like that as long as I can
remember; next time you come, you'll be used to it."
Clodetta looked at her husband for a moment before replying. At last
she said, "I don't think I like the house, Ernest."
"Oh, nonsense, darling." He started to get up, but Clodetta stopped
him.
"Listen Ernest. I remembered perfectly well Aunt Mary's not wanting
those curtains drawn away-but I j ust felt I had to do it. I didn't want
to, but-something made me do it. " Her voice was unsteady.
"Why, Clodetta," he said, faintly alarmed. "Why didn't you tell me
before ?"
She shrugged. "Aunt Mary might have thought I'd gone wool-gathering."
"Well, it's nothing serious, but you've let it bother you a little and that
isn't good for you. Forget it; think of something else. Come and listen to
the radio."
They rose and moved toward the sitting-room together. At the door
Henry met them. He stepped aside a little, saying, "I might have known
we'd be marooned up here," and adding, as Clodetta began to protest,
"We're going to be all right. There's a wind coming up and it's beginning
to snow, and I know what that means." He passed them and went into
the deserted dining-room, where he stood a moment looking at the too
long table. Then he turned aside and went over to the French windows,
from which he drew away the curtains and stood there peering out into
the darkness. Ernest saw him standing at the window, and protested from
the sitting-room.
"Aunt Mary doesn't like those windows uncovered, Henry."
Henry half turned and replied, "Well, she may think it's dangerous, but
I can risk it. "
Clodetta, who had been staring beyond Henry into the night through
the French windows, said suddenly, "Why, there's someone out there !"
Henry looked quickly through the glass and replied, "No, that's the
snow; it's coming down heavily, and the wind's drifting it this way and
that." He dropped the curtains and came away from the windows.
Clodetta said uncertainly, "Why, I could have sworn I saw someone
out there, walking past the window."
"I suppose it does look that way from here," offered Henry, who had
come back into the sitting-room. "But personally, I think you've let Aunt
Mary's eccentricities impress you too much." 
AuGusT D ERLETH :lli ?2 45
Ernest made an impatient gesture at this, and Clodetta did not answer.
Henry sat down before the radio and began to move the dial slowly.
Ernest had found himself a book, and was becoming interested, but Clodetta continued to sit with her eyes fixed upon the still slowly moving
curtains cutting off the French windows. Presently she got up and left the
room, going down the long hall into the east wing, where she tapped
gently upon Aunt Mary's door.
"Come in," called the old lady.
Clodetta opened the door and stepped into the room where Aunt Mary
sat in her dressing-robe, her dignity, in the shape of her lorgnette and
cane, resting respectively on her bureau and in the corner. She looked
surprisingly benign, as Clodetta at once confessed.
"Ha, thought I was an ogre in disguise, did you ?" said the old lady,
smiling in spite of herself. ''I'm really not, you see, but I am a sort of
bogy about the west windows, as you have seen."
"I wanted to tell you something about those windows, Aunt Mary,"
said Clodetta. She stopped suddenly. The expression on the old lady's
face had given way to a curiously dismaying one. It was not anger, not
distaste-it was a lurking suspense. Why, the old lady was afraid!
"What?" she asked Clodetta shortly.
"I was looking out-just for a moment or so-and I thought I saw
someone out there."
"Of course, you didn't, Clodetta. Your imagination, perhaps, or the
drifting snow."
"My imagination? Maybe. But there was no wind to drift the snow,
though one has come up since."
"I've often been fooled that way, my dear. Sometimes I've gone out in
the morning to look for footprints--there weren't any, ever. We're pretty
far away from civilization in a snowstorm, despite our telephones and
radios. Our nearest neighbor is at the foot of the long, sloping rise-over
three miles away-and all wooded land between. There's no highway
nearer than that."
"It was so clear, I could have sworn to it."
"Do you want to go out in the morning and look?" asked the old
lady shortly.
"Of course not."
"Then you didn't see anythingi'"
It was half question, half demand. Clodetta said, "Oh, Aunt Mary,
you're making an issue of it now."
"Did you or didn't you in your own mind see anything, Clodetta?"
"I guess I didn't, Aunt Mary."
"Very well. And now do you think we might talk a bout something
more pleasant?"
"Why, I'm sure-I'm sorry, Aunt. I didn't know that Ernest's grandfather had died out there." 
46 ?
?}.!)}WI THE D RIFTING SNOW
"Ha, he's told you that, has he? Well?"
"Yes, he said that was why you didn't like the slope after sunset-that
you didn't like to be reminded of his death."
The old lady looked at Clodetta impassively. "Perhaps he'll never know
how near right he was."
"What do you mean, Aunt Mary?"
"Nothing for you to know, my dear." She smiled again, her sternness
dropping from her. "And now I think you'd better go, Clodetta; I'm
tired."
Clodetta rose obediently and made for the door, where the old lady
stopped her. "How's the weather?"
"It's snowing-hard, Henry says-and blowing."
The old lady's face showed her distaste at the news. "I don't like to
hear that, not at all. Suppose someone should look down that slope tonight?" She was speaking to herself, having forgotten Clodetta at the
door. Seeing her again abruptly, she said, "But you don't know, Clodetta. Goodnight."
Clodetta stood with her back against the closed door, wondering what
the old lady could have meant. But you don't know, Clodetta. That was
curious. For a moment or two the old lady had completely forgotten her.
She moved away from the door, and came upon Ernest just turning
into the east wing.
"Oh, there you are," he said. "I wondered where you had gone."
"I was talking a bit with Aunt Mary."
"Henry's been at the west windows again-and now he thinks there's
someone out there."
Clodetta stopped short. "Does he really think so?"
Ernest nodded gravely. "But the snow's drifting frightfully, and I can
imagine how that suggestion of yours worked on his mind."
Clodetta turned and went back along the hall. "I'm going to tell
Aunt Mary."
He started to protest, but to no avail, for she was already tapping on
the old lady's door, and indeed opening the door and entering the room
before he could frame an adequate protest.
"Aunt Mary," she said, "I didn't want to disturb you again, but Henry's
been at the French windows in the dining-room, and he says he's seen
someone out there."
The effect on the old lady was magical. "He's seen them!" she exclaimed. Then she was on her feet, coming rapidly over to Clodetta. "How
long ago?" she demanded, seizing her almost roughly by the arms. "Tell
me, quickly. How long ago did he see them?"
Clodetta's amazement kept her silent for a moment, but at last she
spoke, feeling the old lady's keen eyes staring at her. "It was some time
ago, Aunt Mary, after supper."
The old lady's hands relaxed, and with it her tension. "Oh," she said, 
A UGUST DERL ETH ? 4 7
and turned and went back slowly to her chair, taking her cane from the
corner where she had put it for the night.
"Then there is someone out there ?" challenged Clodetta, when the old
lady had reached her chair.
For a long time, it seemed to Clodetta, there was no answer. Then
presently the old lady began to nod gently, and a barely audible "Yes"
escaped her lips.
"Then we had better take them in, Aunt Mary."
The old lady looked at Clodetta earnestly for a moment; then she replied, her voice firm and low, her eyes fixed upon the wall beyond. "We
can't take them in, Clodetta-because they're not alive."
At once Henry's words came flashing into Clodetta's memory-"She's
losing her mind"-and her involuntary start betrayed her thought.
"I'm afraid I'm not mad, my clear-1 hoped at first I might be, but I
wasn't. I'm not, now. There was only one of them out there at first-the
girl; Father is the other. Quite long ago, when I was young, my father
did something which he regretted all his days. He had a too strong temper,
and it maddened him. One night he found out that one of my brothersHenry's father-had been very familiar with one of the servants, a very
pretty girl, older than I was. He thought she was to blame, though she
wasn't, and he didn't find it out until too late. He drove her from the
house, then and there. Winter had not yet set in, but it was quite cold,
and she had some five miles to go to her home. We begged Father not to
send her away-though we didn't know what was wrong then-but he
paid no attention to us. The girl had to go.
"Not long after she had gone, a biting wind came up, and close upon
it a fierce storm. Father had already repented his hasty action, and sent
some of the men to look for the girl. They didn't find her, but in the
morning she was found frozen to death on the long slope of the hill to
the west."
The old lady sighed, paused a moment, and went on. "Years later-­
she came back. She came in a snowstorm, as she went; but she had become
a vampire. We all saw her. We were at supper table, and Father saw her
first. The boys had already gone upstairs, and Father and the two of us
girls, my sister and I, did not recognize her. She was just a dim shape
floundering about in the drifting snow beyond the French windows. Father
ran out to her, calling to us to send the boys after him. We never saw
him alive again. In the morning we found him in the same spot where
years before the girl had been found. He, too, had died of exposure.
"Then, a few years after-she returned with the snow, and she brought
him along; he, too, had become a vampire. They stayed until the last
snow, always trying to lure someone out there. After that, I knew, and
had the windows covered during the winter nights, from sunset to dawn,
because they never went beyond the west slope.
"Now you know, Clodetta." 
48 ?THE D RIFTING SNOW
Whatever Clodetta was going to say was cut short by running footsteps
in the hall, a hasty rap, and Ernest's head appearing suddenly in the
open doorway.
"Come on, you two," he said, almost gayly, "there are people out on
the west slope-a girl and an old man-and Henry's gone out to fetch
them in! "
Then, triumphant, he was off. Clodetta came to her feet, but the old
lady was before her, passing her and almost running down the hall, calling
loudly for Lisa, who presently appeared in nightcap and gown from her
room.
"Call Sam, Lisa," said the old lady, "and send him to me in the diningroom."
She ran on into the dining-room, Clodetta close on her heels. The
French windows were open, and Ernest stood on the snow-covered terrace
beyond, calling his cousin. The old lady went directly over to him, even
striding into the snow to his side, though the wind drove the snow against
her with great force. The wooded western slope was lost in a snow-fog;
the nearest trees were barely discernible.
"Where could they have gone?" Ernest said, turning to the old lady,
whom he had thought to be Clodetta. Then, seeing that it was the old
lady, he said, "Why, Aunt Mary-and so little on, too! You'll catch your
death of cold."
"Never mind, Ernest," said the old lady. "I'm all right. I 've had Sam
get up to help you look for Henry-but I'm afraid you won't find him."
"He can't be far; he just now went out."
"He went before you saw where; he's far enough gone."
Sam came running into the blowing snow from the dining-room, muffled in a greatcoat. He was considerably older than Ernest, almost the old
lady's age. He shot a questioning glance at her and asked, "Have they
come again?"
Aunt Mary nodded. "You'll have to look for Henry. Ernest will help
you. And remember, don't separate. And don't go far from the house."
Clodetta came with Ernest's overcoat, and together the two women
stood there, watching them until they were swallowed up in the wall of
driven snow. Then they turned slowly and went back into the house.
The old lady sank into a chair facing the windows. She was pale and
drawn, and looked, as Clodetta said afterward, "as if she'd fallen together." For a long time she said nothing. Then, with a gentle little sigh,
she turned to Clodetta and spoke.
"Now there'll be three of them out there."
Then, so suddenly that no one knew how it happened, Ernest and Sam
appeared beyond the windows, and between them they dragged Henry.
The old lady flew to open the windows, and the three of them, cloaked
in snow, came into the room. 
Auc;usT D ERLETH ? 49
"We found him-but the cold's hit him pretty hard, I'm afraid," said
Ernest.
The old lady sent Lisa for cold water, and Ernest ran to get himself
other clothes. Clodetta went with him, and in their rooms told him what
the old lady had related to her.
Ernest laughed. "I think you believed that, didn't you, Clodetta? Sam
and Lisa do, I know, because Sam told me the story long ago. I think the
shock of Grandfather's death was too much for all three of them."
"But the story of the girl, and then--"
"That part's true, I'm afraid. A nasty story, but it did happen."
"But those people Henry and I saw!" protested Clodetta weakly.
Ernest stood without movement. "That's so," he said, "I saw them,
too. Then they're out there yet, and we'll have to find them!" He took
up his overcoat again, and went from the room, Clodetta protesting in a
shrill unnatural voice. The old lady met him at the door of the diningroom, having overheard Clodetta pleading with him.
"No, Ernest-you can't go out there again," she said. "There's no
one there."
He pushed gently into the room and called to Sam, "Coming Sam?
There're still two of them out there-we almost forgot them."
Sam looked at him strangely. " What do you mean?" he demanded
roughly. He looked challengingly at the old lady, who shook her head.
"The girl and the old man, Sam. We've got to get them, too."
"Oh, them," said Sam. "They're dead!"
"Then I'll go out alone," said Ernest.
Henry came to his feet suddenly, looking dazed. He walked forward a
few steps, his eyes traveling from one to the other of them, yet apparently
not seeing them. He began to speak abruptly, in an unnatural child-like
VOICe.
"The snow," he murmured, "the snow-the beautiful hands, so little,
so lovely-her beautiful hands-al'1d the snow, the beautiful, lovely snow,
drifting and falling about her. . . . "
He turned slowly and looked toward the French windows, the others
following his gaze. Beyond was a wall of white, where the snow was
drifting against the house. For a moment Henry stood quietly watching
then suddenly a white figure came forward from the snow-a young girl,
cloaked in long snow-whips, her glistening eyes strangely fascinating.
The old lady flung herself forward, her arms outstretched to cling to
Henry, but she was too late. Henry had run toward the windows, had
opened them, and even as Clodetta cried out, had vanished into the wall
of snow beyond.
Then Ernest ran forward, but the old lady threw her arms around him
and held him tightly, murmuring, "You shall not go! Henry is gone beyond our help!"
Clodetta came to help her, and Sam stood menacingly at the French 
50 ?
?J.!)¥-JI THE D RIFTING SNOW
windows, now closed against the wind and the sinister snow. So they held
him, and would not let him go.
"And tomorrow," said the old lady in a harsh whisper, "we must go
to their graves and stake them down. We should have gone before."
In the morning they found Henry's body crouched against the bole of an
ancient oak, where two others had been found years before. There were
almost obliterated marks of where something had dragged him, a long,
uneven swath in the snow, and yet no footprints, only strange, hollowed
places along the way, as if the wind had whirled the snow away, and
only the wind.
But on his skin were signs of the snow vampire-the delicate small
prints of a young girl's hands. 
STEPHEN KING
(b .. 1947)
The name Stephen King has become almost as much of an icon of horror
fiction as that fictional creation, Dracula, himself. Born in Portland,
Maine, King attended the Universtty of Maine and he worked as a janitor,
a laborer in a knitting mill, and a high school English teacher before
beginning his career as a writer. Before he was fifty, King was in the
record books as "the best selling horror writer in history . . . [with more
than} seventy million copies of his books in print. '"'
King's first short story, "The Glass Floor, " was published in Startling
Mystery Stories (1 967). His first published novel, Carrie: A Novel of a
Girl with a Frightening Power (1 974}, was made into a movie, as were
most of his other novels, including The Shining (1 977}, Firestarter (1 980),
Pet Semetary (1 983), and Misery (1 987). King wrote four novels before
Carrie that were later published under the pseudonym Richard Bachman:
Rage (1977), The Long Walk (1 979), Roadwork (1 981), and The Running
Man (1 982). He has received numerous awards and honors: Carrie was
one of School Library Journal's Best Books of 1975; Salem's Lot (1 975),
The Stand (1 978), Night Shift (1 978), The Dead Zone (1 979), The Mist
(1 981), and The Breathing Method (1 983) were all nominated for World
Fantasy awards; The Shining was nominated for both the Hugo and the
Nebula awards in 1978; and "Lunch at the Gotham Cafe" was nominated
for the Bram Stoker Award for Best Novelette in 1 996.
There is no easy way to explain a phenomenon like King beyond pointing to the obvious: he is industrious, inventive, and a master of "the
common touch '' prose style. King has, by mythologizing frightening aspects of twentieth-century life, established a claim to greatness as a writer
of horror fiction. In Danse Macabre (1 981}, his Hugo Award-winning
non-fiction work, he puts his goal as a writer directly: " ... I will try to
terrify the reader. If I cannot terrify him/her, I will try to horrify; and if
I find I cannot horrify, I'll go for the gross-out ... . ''
The influence of Bram Stoker's Dracula on Salem's Lot is pronounced
and is acknowledged by King. For example, the scene in which the vampirized body of Susan Norton is staked is an almost gesture-by-gesture replay
of the staking of Lucy in Stoker's novel. There, Holmwood uses a threefoot-long oak stake and a coal-breaking hammer. In a witty and ingenious
modernization of Stoker's scene, King has Ben Mears, who loves Susan,
use a broken baseball bat and a Sears Roebuck hammer. The use of the
homely implements in both works adds to the horror of the scene.
»Jack Sullivan, ed. The Penguin Encyclopedia of Horror and the Supernatural. 
Excerpt from
SALEM'S LOT
'
When he first heard the distant snapping of twigs, he crept
behind the trunk of a large spruce and stood there, waiting to see who
would show up. They couldn't come out in the daytime, but that didn't
mean they couldn't get people who could; giving them money was one
way, but it wasn't the only way. Mark had seen that guy Straker in town,
and his eyes were like the eyes of a toad sunning itself on a rock. He
looked like he could break a baby's arm and smile while he did it.
He touched the heavy shape of his father's target pistol in his jacket
pocket. Bullets were no good against them-except maybe silver onesbut a shot between the eyes would punch that Straker's ticket, all right.
His eyes shifted downward momentarily to the roughly cylindrical shape
propped against the tree, wrapped in an old piece of toweling. There was
a woodpile behind his house, half a cord of yellow ash stove lengths
which he and his father had cut with the McCulloch chain saw in July
and August. Henry Petrie was methodical, and each length, Mark knew,
would be within an inch of three feet, one way or the other. His father
knew the proper length j ust as he knew that winter followed fall and that
yellow ash would burn longer and cleaner in the living room fireplace.
His son, who knew other things, knew that ash was for men-thingslike him. This morning, while his mother and father were out on their
Sunday bird walk, he had taken one of the lengths and whacked one
end into a rough point with his Boy Scout hatchet. It was rough, but it
would serve.
He saw a flash of color and shrank back against the tree, peering around
the rough bark with one eye. A moment later he got his first clear glimpse
of the person climbing the hill. It was a girl. He felt a sense of relief
mingled with disappointment. No henchman of the devil there; that was
Mr. Norton's daughter.
His gaze sharpened again. She was carrying a stake of her own! As she
drew closer, he felt an urge to laugh bitterly-a piece of snow fence, that's
what she had. Two swings with an ordinary tool box hammer would split
it right in two.
She was going to pass his tree on the right. As she drew closer, he
began to slide carefully around his tree to the left, avoiding any small
twigs that might pop and give him away. At last the synchronized little
movement was done; her back was to him as she went up on the hill
toward the break in the trees. She was going very carefully, he noted with 
STEPHEN KING ? 53
approval. That was good. In spite of the silly snow fence stake, she apparently had some idea of what she was getting into. Still, if she went much
further, she was going to be in trouble. Straker wes at home. Mark had
been here since twelve-thirty, and he had seen Straker go out to the driveway and look down the road and then go back into the house. Mark had
been trying to make up his mind on what to do himself when this girl
had entered things, upsetting the 'equation.
He was pondering how to make his presence known to her without
having her scream her head off when the motor of Straker's car roared
into life. She jumped visibly, and at first he was afraid she was going to
break and run, crashing through !the woods and advertising her presence
for a hundred miles. But then she hunkered down again, holding on to
the ground like she was afraid it would fly away from her. She's got guts
even if she is stupid, he thought approvingly.
Straker's car backed down the driveway-she would have a much better
view from where she was; he could only see the Packard's black roof-­
hesitated for a moment, and then went off down the road toward town.
He decided they had to team up. Anything would be better than going
up to that house alone. He had already sampled the poison atmosphere
that enveloped it. He had felt it from a half a mile away, and it thickened
as you got closer.
Now he ran lightly up the carpeted incline and put his hand on her
shoulder. He felt her body tense, knew she was going to scream, and said,
"Don't yell. It's all right. It's me .
.
. ,
She didn't scream. What escaped was a terrified exhalation of air. She
turned around and looked at him, her face white. "W-Who's me ?"
He sat down beside her. "My name is Mark Petrie. I know you; you're
Sue Norton. My dad knows your dad."
"Petrie ... ? Henry Petrie?"
"Yes, that's my father."
"What are you doing here?" Her eyes were moving continually over
him, as if she hadn't been able to take in his actuality yet.
"The same thing you are. Only that stake won't work. It's too ... "
He groped for a word that had checked into his vocabulary through sight
and definition but not by use. "It's too flimsy."
She looked down at her piece of snow fence and actually blushed. "Oh,
that. Well, I found that in the woods and ... and thought someone might
fall over it, so I j ust-"
He cut her adult temporizing short impatiently: "You carne to kill the
vampire, didn't you?"
"Wherever did you get that idea ? Vampires and things like that?"
He said somberly, "A vampire tried to get me last night. It almost
did, too."
"That's absurd. A big boy like you should know better than to make
up-" 
54 ?
?)9¥JI SALEM's L OT
"It was Danny Glick."
She recoiled, her eyes wincing as if he had thrown a mock punch instead
of words. She groped out, found his arm, and held it. Their eyes locked.
"Are you making this up, Mark?"
"No," he said.
"And you came here alone ?" she asked when he had finished. "You
believed it and came up here alone ?"
"Believed it?" He looked at her, honestly puzzled. "Sure I believed it.
I saw it, didn't I?"
There was no response to that, and suddenly she was ashamed of her
instant doubt (no, doubt was too kind a word).
"How come you're here?"
She hesitated a moment and then said, "There are some men in town
who suspect that there is a man in that house whom no one has seen.
That he might be a ... a ... "Still she could not say the word, but he
nodded his understanding. Even on short acquaintance, he seemed quite
an extraordinary little boy.
Abridging all that she might have added, she said simply, "So I came
to look and find out."
He nodded at the stake. "And brought that to pound through him?"
"I don't know if I could do that."
"I could," he said calmly. "After what I saw last night. Danny was
outside my window, holding on like a great big fly. And his teeth ... "
He shook his head, dismissing the nightmare as a businessman might
dismiss a bankrupt client.
"Do your parents know you're here?" she asked, knowing they must
not.
"No," he said matter-of-factly. "Sunday is their nature day. They go
on bird walks in the mornings and do other things in the afternoon.
Sometimes I go and sometimes I don't. Today they went for a ride up
the coast."
"You're quite a boy," she said.
"No, I'm not," he said, his composure unruffled by the praise. "But
I'm going to get rid of him." He looked up at the house.
"Are you sure-"
"Sure I am. So're you. Can't you feel how bad he is? Doesn't that house
make you afraid, j ust looking at it?"
"Yes," she said simply, giving in to him. His logic was the logic of
nerve endings.
"How are we going to do it?" she asked, automatically giving over the
leadership of the venture to him.
"Just go up there and break in," he said. "Find him, pound the stakemy stake-through his heart, and get out again. He's probably down
cellar. They like dark places. Did you bring a flashlight?"
"No." 
STEPHEN KING ? 55
"Damn it, neither did 1." He shuffled his sneakered feet aimlessly in
the leaves for a moment. "Probably didn't bring a cross either, did
you?"
"Yes, I did," Susan said. She pulled the link chain out of her blouse
and showed him. He nodded and then pulled a chain out of his own
shirt.
"I hope I can get this back before my folks come home." he said gloomily. "I crooked it from my mother's jewelry box. I'll catch hell if she finds
out." He looked around. The shadows had lengthened even as they talked,
and they both felt an impulse to delay and delay.
"When we find him, don't look in his eyes," Mark told her. "He can't
move out of his coffin, not until dark, but he can still hook you with his
eyes. Do you know anything religious by heart?"
They had started through the bushes between the woods and the unkempt lawn of the Marsten House.
"Well, the Lord's Prayer-"
"Sure, that's good. I know that one, too. We'll both say it while I
pound the stake in."
He saw her expression, revolted and half flagging, and he took her
hand and squeezed it. His self-possession was disconcerting. "Listen, we
have to. I bet he's got half the town after last night. If we wait any longer,
he'll have it all. It will go fast, now."
"After last night?"
"I dreamed it," Mark said. His voice was still calm, but his eyes were
dark. "I dreamed of them going to houses and calling on phones and
begging to be let in. Some people knew, way down deep they knew, but
they let them in just the same. Because it was easier to do that than to
think something so bad might be real."
"Just a dream," she said uneasily.
"I bet there's a lot of people lying around in bed today with the curtains
closed or the shades drawn, wondering if they've got a cold or the flu or
something. They feel all weak and fuzzy-headed. They don't want to eat.
The idea of eating makes them want to puke."
"How do you know so much?"
"I read the monster magazines," he said, "and go to see the movies
when I can. Usually I have to tell my mom I'm going to see Walt Disney.
And you can't trust all of it. Sometimes they just make stuff up so the
story will be bloodier."
As Mark had said, this close to the house it was j ust not possible
to scoff. All the thought processes, the act of conversation itself, were
overshadowed by a more fundamental voice that was screaming danger!
danger! in words that were not words at all. Susan's heartbeat and respiration were up, yet her skin was cold with the capillary-dilating effect of
adrenaline, which keeps the blood hiding deep in the body's wells during
moments of stress. Her kidneys were tight and heavy. Her eyes seemed 
56 ?SALEM's LoT
preternaturally sharp, taking in every splinter and paint flake on the side
of the house. And all of this had been triggered by no external stimuli at
all: no men with guns, no large and snarling dogs, no smell of fire. A
deeper watchman than her five senses had been wakened after a long
season of sleep. And there was no ignoring it.
She peered through a break in the lower shutters. "Why, they haven't
done a thing to it," she said almost angrily. "It's a mess."
"Let me see. Boost me up."
She laced her fingers together so he could look through the broken slats
and into the crumbling living room of the Marsten House. He saw a
deserted, boxy parlor with a thick patina of dust on the floor (many
footprints had been tracked through it), peeling wallpaper, two or three
old easy chairs, a scarred table. There were cobwebs festooned in the
room's upper corners, near the ceiling.
Before she could protest, he had rapped the hook-and-eye combination
that held the shutter closed with the blunt end of his stake. The lock fell
to the ground in two rusty pieces, and the shutters creaked outward an
inch or two.
"Hey!" she protested."You shouldn't-"
"What do you want to do? Ring the doorbell?"
He accordioned back the right-hand shutter and rapped one of the
dusty, wavy panes of glass. It tinkled inward. The fear leaped up in her,
hot and strong, making a coppery taste in her mouth.
He knocked the protruding shards of glass out of the pane he had
broken, switched the stake to his other hand, then reached through and
unlatched the window. It moaned slightly as he pushed it up, and then
the way was open.
She let him down and they looked wordlessly at the window for a
moment. Then Susan stepped forward, pushed on the splintery windowsill
preparatory to boosting herself up. The fear in her was sickening with its
greatness, settled in her belly like a horrid pregnancy.
She had always consciously or unconsciously formed fear into a simple equation: fears = unknown. And to solve the equation, one simply
reduced the problem to simple algebraic terms, thus: unknown = creaky
board (or whatever), creaky board = nothing to be afraid of. In the
modern world all terrors could be gutted by simple use of the transitive
axiom of equality. Some fears were j ustified, of course (you don't drive
when you're too plowed to see, don't extend the hand of friendship to
snarling dogs, don't go parking with boys you don't know-how did
the old joke go ? Screw or walk?), but until now she hacl not believed
that some fears were larger than comprehension, apocalyptic and nearly
paralyzing. This equation was insoluble. The act of moving forward at
all became heroism.
She boosted herself with a smooth flex of muscles, swung one leg over
the sill, then dropped to the dusty parlor floor and looked around. There 
STEPHEN KING ? 57
was a smell. It oozed out of the walls in an almost visible miasma. She
tried to tell herself it was only plaster rot, or the accumulated damp
guano of all the animals that had nested behind those broken lathings-­
woodchucks, rats, perhaps even a raccoon or two. But it was more. The
smell was deeper than animal-stink, more entrenched. It made her think
of tears and vomit and blackness.
"Hey," Mark called softly. His hands waved above the windowsill. "A
little help."
She leaned out, caught him under the armpits, and dragged him up
until he had caught a grip on the windowsill. Then he jackknifed himself
in neatly. His sneakered feet thumped the carpet, and then the house was
still again.
They found themselves listening to the silence, fascinated by it. There
did not even seem to be the faint,, high hum that comes in utter stillness,
the sound of nerve endings idling in neutral. There was only a great dead
soundlessness and the beat of blood in their own ears.
And yet they both knew, of course. They were not alone.
"Come on," he said. "Let's look around." He clutched the stake very
tightly and for just a moment looked longingly back at the window.
She moved slowly toward the hall and he came after her. Just outside
the door there was a small end table with a book on it. Mark picked it up.
"Hey," he said. "Do you know Latin?"
"A little, from high school."
"What's this mean?" He showed her the binding.
She sounded the words out, a frown creasing her forehead. Then she
shook her head. "Don't know."
He opened the book at random, and flinched. There was a picture of
a naked man holding a child's gutted body toward something you couldn't
see. He put the book down, glad to let go of it-the stretched binding
felt uncomfortably familiar under his hand-and they went down the
hallway toward the kitchen together. The shadows were more prominent
here. The sun had gotten around to the other side of the house.
"Do you smell it?" he asked.
"Yes."
"It's worse back here, isn't it?"'
"Yes."
He was remembering the cold-pantry his mother had kept in the other
house, and how one year three bushel baskets of tomatoes had gone bad
down there in the dark. This smell was like that, like the smell of tomatoes
decaying into putrescence.
Susan whispered: "God, I'm so scared."
His hand groped out, found hers, and they locked tightly.
The kitchen linoleum was old and gritty and pocked, worn black in
front of the old porcelain-tub sink. A large, scarred table stood in the 
58 ?
MJ¥JI SALEM's LoT
middle of the floor, and on it was a yellow plate, a knife and fork, and
a scrap of raw hamburger.
The cellar door was standing ajar.
"That's where we have to go," he said.
"Oh," she said weakly.
The door was open just a crack, and the light did not penetrate at all.
The tongue of darkness seemed to lick hungrily at the kitchen, waiting
for night to come so it could swallow it whole. That quarter inch of
darkness was hideous, unspeakable in its possibilities. She stood beside
Mark, helpless and moveless.
Then he stepped forward and pulled the door open and stood for a
moment, looking down. She saw a muscle jump beneath his jaw.
"I think-" he began, and she heard something behind her and turned,
suddenly feeling slow, feeling too late. It was Straker. He was grinning.
Mark turned, saw, and tried to dive around him. Straker's fist crashed
into his chin and he knew no more.
When Mark came to, he was being carried up a flight of stairs-not the
cellar stairs, though. There was not that feeling of stone enclosure, and
the air was not so fetid. He allowed his eyelids to unclose themselves a
tiny fraction, letting his head still loll limply on his neck. A stair landing
coming up ... the second floor. He could see quite clearly. The sun was
not down yet. Thin hope, then.
They gained the landing, and suddenly the arms holding him were gone.
He thumped heavily onto the floor. Hitting his head.
"Do you not think I know when someone is playing the possum, young
master?" Straker asked him. From the floor he seemed easily ten feet tall.
His bald head glistened with a subdued elegance in the gathering gloom.
Mark saw with growing terror that there was a coil of rope around his
shoulder.
He grabbed for the pocket where the pistol had been.
Straker threw back his head and laughed. "I have taken the liberty of
removing the gun, young master. Boys should not be allowed weapons
they do not understand ... any more than they should lead young ladies
to houses where their commerce has not been invited."
"What did you do with Susan Norton?"
Straker smiled. "I have taken her where she wished to go, my boy. Into
the cellar. Later, when the sun goes down, she will meet the man she
came here to meet. You will meet him yourself, perhaps later tonight,
perhaps tomorrow night. He may give you to the girl, of course ... but
I rather think he'll want to deal with you himself. The girl will have
friends of her own, some of them perhaps meddlers like yourself."
Mark lashed out with both feet at Straker's crotch, and Straker sidestepped liquidly, like a dancer. At the same moment he kicked his own
foot out, connecting squarely with Mark's kidneys. 
STEPHEN KtNG ?
Mark bit his lips and writhed on the floor.
Straker chuckled. "Come, young master. To your feet."
"I ... I can't."
59
"Then crawl," Straker said contemptuously. He kicked again, this time
striking the large muscle of the thigh. The pain was dreadful, but Mark
clenched his feet together. He got to his knees, and then to his feet.
They progressed down the hall toward the door at the far end. The
pain in his kidneys was subsiding to a dull ache. "What are you going to
do with me?"
"Truss you like a spring turkey,, young master. Later, after my Master
holds intercourse with you, you will be set free."
"Like the others?"
Straker smiled.
As Mark pushed open the door and stepped into the room, something
odd seemed to happen in his mind. The fear did not fall away from it,
but it seemed to stop acting as a brake on his thoughts, jamming all
productive signals. His thoughts began to flicker past with amazing speed,
not in words or precisely in images, but in a kind of symbolic shorthand.
He felt like a light bulb that has suddenly received a surge of power from
no known source.
The room itself was utterly prosaic. The wallpaper hung in strips, showing the white plaster and sheet rock beneath. The floor was heavily dusted
with time and plaster, but there was only one set of footprints in it,
suggesting someone had come up once, looked around, and left again.
There were two stacks of magazines, a cast-iron cot with no spring or
mattress, and a small tin plate with a faded Currier & lves design that
had once blocked the stove hole in the chimney. The window was shuttered, but enough light filtered dustily through the broken slats to make
Mark think there might be an hour of daylight left. There was an aura
of old nastiness about the room.
It took perhaps five seconds to open the door, see these things, and
cross to the center of the room where Straker told him to stop. In that
short period, his mind raced along three tracks and saw three possible
outcomes to the situation he found himself in.
On one, he suddenly sprinted across the room toward the shuttered
window and tried to crash through both glass and shutter like a Western
movie hero, taking the drop to whatever lay below with blind hope. In
one mental eye he saw himself crashing through only to fall onto a rusty
pile of j unked farm machinery, twitching away the last seconds of his life
impaled on blunt harrow blades like a bug on a pin. In the other eye he
saw himself crashing through the glass and into the shutter which trembled but did not break. He saw Straker pulling him back, his clothes torn,
his body lacerated and bleeding in a dozen places.
On the second track, he saw Straker tie him up and leave. He saw
himself trussed on the floor, saw the light fading, saw his struggles become 
60 @
M.JJbll SALEM's LOT
more frenzied (but j ust as useless), and heard, finally, the steady tread on
the stairs of one who was a million times worse than Straker.
On the third track, he saw himself using a trick he had read about last
summer in a book on Houdini. Houdini had been a famous magician
who had escaped jail cells, chained boxes, bank vaults, steamer trunks
thrown into rivers. He could get out of ropes, police handcuffs, and Chinese fingerpullers. And one of the things the book said he did was hold
his breath and tighten his hands into fists when a volunteer from the
audience was tying him up. You bulged your thighs and forearms and
neck muscles, too. If your muscles were big, you had a little slack when
you relaxed them. The trick then was to relax completely, and go at your
escape slowly and surely, never letting panic hurry you up. Little by little,
your body would give you sweat for grease, and that helped, too. The
book made it sound very easy.
"Turn around," Straker said. "I am going to tie you up. While I tie
you up, you will not move. If you move, I take this"-he cocked his
thumb before Mark like a hitchhiker-"and pop your right eye out. Do
you understand?"
Mark nodded. He took a deep breath, held it, and bunched all his
muscles.
Straker threw his coil of rope over one of the beams.
"Lie down," he said.
Mark did.
He crossed Mark's hands behind his back and bound them tightly with
the rope. He made a loop, slipped it around Mark's neck, and tied it in
a hangman's knot. "You're made fast to the very beam my Master's
friend and sponsor in this country hung himself from, young master. Are
you flattered?"
Mark grunted, and Straker laughed. He passed the rope through Mark's
crotch, and he groaned as Straker took up the slack with a brutal jerk.
He chuckled with monstrous good nature. "So your jewels hurt? They
will not for long. You are going to lead an ascetic's life, my boy-a long,
long life."
He banded the rope over Mark's taut thighs, made the knot tight,
banded it again over his knees, and again over his ankles. Mark needed
to breathe very badly now, but he held on stubbornly.
"You're trembling, young master," Straker said mockingly. "Your body
is all in hard little knots. Your flesh is white-but it will be whiter! Yet
you need not be so afraid. My Master has the capacity for kindness. He
is much loved, right here in your own town. There is only a little sting,
like the doctor's needle, and then sweetness. And later on you will be let
free. You will go see your mother and father, yes? You will see them after
they sleep."
He stood up and looked down at Mark benignly. "I will say good-by 
STEPHEN KING ? 61
for a bit now, young master. Your lovely consort is to be made comfortable. When we meet again, you will like me better."
He left, slamming the door behind him. A key rattled in the lock. And
as his feet descended the stairs, Mark let out his breath and relaxed his
muscles with a great, whooping sigh.
The ropes holding him loosened--a little.
He lay moveless, collecting himself. His mind was still flying with that
same unnatural, exhilarating speed. From his position, he looked across
the swelled, uneven floor to the iron cot frame. He could see the wall
beyond it. The wallpaper was peeled away from that section and lay
beneath the cot frame like a discarded snakeskin. He focused on a small
section of the wall and examined it closely. He flushed everything else
from his mind. The book on Houdini said that concentration was allimportant. No fear or taint of panic must be allowed in the mind. The
body must be completely relaxed. And the escape must take place in the
mind before a single finger did so much as twitch. Every step must exist
concretely in the mind.
He looked at the wall, and minutes passed.
The wall was white and bumpy, like an old drive-in movie screen.
Eventually, as his body relaxed to its greatest degree, he began to see
himself projected there, a small boy wearing a blue T-shirt and Levi's
jeans. The boy was on his side, arms pulled behind him, wrists nestling
the small of the back above the buttocks. A noose looped around his
neck, and any hard struggling would tighten that running slipknot inexorably until enough air was cut off to black out the brain.
He looked at the wall.
The figure there had begun to move cautiously, although he himself lay
perfectly still. He watched all the movements of the simulacrum raptly.
He had achieved a level of concentration necessary to the Indian fakirs
and yogis, who are able to contemplate their toes or the tips of their
noses for days, the state of certain mediums who levitate tables in a state
of unconsciousness or extrude long tendrils of teleplasm from the nose,
the mouth, the fingertips. His state was close to sublime. He did not think
of Straker or the fading daylight. He no longer saw the gritty floor, the
cot frame, or even the wall. He only saw the boy, a perfect figure which
went through a tiny dance of carefully controlled muscles.
He looked at the wall.
And at last he began to move his wrists in half circles, toward each
other. At the limit of each half circle, the thumb sides of his palms
touched. No muscles moved but those in his lower forearms. He did not
hurry. He looked at the wall.
As sweat rose through his pores, his wrists began to turn more freely.
The half circles became three-quarters. At the limit of each, the backs of
his hands pressed together. The loops holding them had loosened a tiny
bit more. 
62 ?
?J:)¥JI S ALEM 's LOT
He stopped.
After a moment had passed, he began to flex his thumbs against his
palms and press his fingers together in a wriggling motion. His face was
utterly expressionless, the plaster face of a department store dummy.
Five minutes passed. His hands were sweating freely now. The extreme
level of his concentration had put him in partial control of his own sympathetic nervous system, another device of yogis and fakirs, and he had,
unknowingly, gained some control over his body's involuntary functions.
More sweat trickled from his pores than his careful movements could
account for. His hands had become oily. Droplets fell from his forehead,
darkening the white dust on the floor.
He began to move his arms in an up-and -down piston motion, using
his biceps and back muscles now. The noose tightened a little, but he
could feel one of the loops holding his hands beginning to drag lower on
his right palm. It was sticking against the pad of the thumb now, and
that was all. Excitement shot through him and he stopped at once until
the emotion had passed away completely. When it had, he began again.
Up-down. Up-down. Up-down. He gained an eighth of an inch at a time.
And suddenly, shockingly, his right hand was free.
He left it where it was, flexing it. When he was sure it was limber, he
eased the fingers under the loop holding the left wrist and tented them.
The left hand slid free.
He brought both hands around and put them on the floor. He closed
his eyes for a moment, The trick now was to not think he had it made.
The trick now was to move with great deliberation.
Supporting himself with his left hand, he let his right roam over the
bumps and valleys of the knot which secured the noose at his neck. He
saw immediately that he would have to nearly choke himself to free itand he was going to tighten the pressure on his testicles, which already
throbbed dully.
He took a deep breath and began to work on the knot. The rope
tightened by steady degrees, pressing into his neck and crotch. Prickles of
coarse hemp dug into his throat like miniature tattoo needles. The knot
defied him for what seemed an endless time. His vision began to fade
under the onslaught of large black flowers that burst into soundless bloom
before his eyes. He refused to hurry. He wiggled the knot steadily, and at
last felt new slack in it. For a moment the pressure on his groin tightened
unbearably, and then with a convulsive jerk, he threw the noose over his
head and the pain lessened.
He sat up and hung his head over, breathing raggedly, cradling his
wounded testicles in both hands. The sharp pain became a dull, pervading
ache that made him feel nauseated.
When it began to abate a little, he looked over at the shuttered window.
The light coming through the broken slats had faded to a dull ocher-it
was almost sundown. And the door was locked. 
STEPHEN KING ? 63
He pulled the loose loop of rope over the beam, and set to work on
the knots that held his legs. They were maddeningly tight, and his concentration had begun to slip away from him as reaction set in.
He freed his thighs, the knees, and after a seemingly endless struggle,
his ankles. He stood up weakly a mong the harmless loops of rope and
staggered. He began to rub his thighs.
There was a noise from below: footsteps.
He looked up, panicky, nostrils dilating. He hobbled over to the window and tried to lift it. Nailed shut, with rusted tenpennies bent over the
cheap wood of the half sill like staples.
The feet were coming up the stairs.
He wiped his mouth with his hand and stared wildly around the room.
Two bundles of magazines. A small tin plate with a picture of an 1 890s
summer picnic on the back. The iron cot frame.
He went to it despairingly and pulled up one end. And some distant
gods, perhaps seeing how much luck he had manufactured by himself,
doled out a little of their own.
The steps had begun down the hall toward the door when he unscrewed
the steel cot leg to its final thread and pulled it free.
When the door opened, Mark was standing behind it with the bed leg
upraised, like a wooden Indian with a tomahawk.
"Young master, I've come to--'''
He saw the empty coils of rope and froze for perhaps one full second
in utter surprise. He was halfway through the door.
To Mark, things seemed to have slowed to the speed of a football
maneuver seen in instant replay. He seemed to have minutes rather than
bare seconds to aim at the one-quarter skull circumference visible beyond
the edge of the door.
He brought the leg down with both hands, not as hard as he couldhe sacrificed some force for better aim. It struck Straker j ust above the
temple, as he started to turn to look behind the door. His eyes, open
wide, squeezed shut in pain. Blood flew from the scalp wound in an
amazing spray.
Straker's body recoiled and he stumbled backward into the room. His
face was twisted into a terrifying grimace. He reached out and Mark hit
him again. This time the pipe struck his bald skull just above the bulge
of the forehead, and there was another gout of blood.
He went down bonelessly, his eyes rolling up in his head.
Mark skirted the body, looking at: it with eyes that were bulging and
wide. The end of the bed leg was painted with blood. It was darker than
Technicolor movie blood. Looking at it made him feel sick, but looking
at Straker made him feel nothing.
I killed him, he thought. And on the heels of that: Good. Good.
Straker's hand closed around his ankle. 
64 ? SALEM's LoT
Mark gasped and tried to pull his foot away. The hand held fast like
a steel trap and now Straker was looking up at him, his eyes cold and
bright through a dripping mask of blood. His lips were moving, but no
sound came out. Mark pulled harder, to no avail. With a half groan, he
began to hammer at Straker's clutching hand with the bed leg. Once,
twice, three times, four. There was the awful pencil sound of snapping
fingers. The hand loosened, and he pulled free with a yank that sent him
stumbling out through the doorway and into the hall.
Straker's head had dropped to the floor again, but his mangled hand
opened and closed on the air with tenebrous vitality, like the jerking of
a dog's paws in dreams of cat-chasing.
The bed leg fell from his nerveless fingers and he backed away,
trembling. Then panic took him and he turned and fled down the stairs,
leaping two or three at a time on his numb legs, his hand skimming the
splintered banister.
The front hall was shadow-struck, horribly dark.
He went into the kitchen, casting lunatic, shying glances at the open
cellar door. The sun was going down in a blazing mullion of reds and
yellows and purples.
Mark knew nothing of that, but he knew the vampire's time was imminent. To stay longer meant confrontation on top of confrontation; to go
back down into that cellar and try to save Susan meant induction into
the ranks of the Undead.
Yet he went to the cellar door and actually walked down the first three
steps before his fear wrapped him in almost physical bonds and would
allow him to go no further. He was weeping, and his body was trembling
wildly, as if with ague.
"Susan!" he screamed. "Run!"
"M-Mark?" Her voice, sounding weak and dazed. "I can't see. It's
dark-"
There was a sudden booming noise, like a hollow gunshot, followed by
a profound and soulfess chuckle.
Susan screamed ... a sound that trailed away to a moan and then
to silence.
Still he paused, on feather-feet that trembled to blow him away.
And from below came a friendly voice, amazingly like his father's:
"Come down, my boy. I admire you."
The power in the voice alone was so great that he felt the fear ebbing
from him, the feathers in his feet turning to lead. He actually began to
grope down another step before he caught hold of himself-and the catching hold took all the ragged discipline he had left.
" Come down," the voice said, closer now. It held, beneath the friendly
fatherliness, the smooth steel of command.
Mark shouted down: "I know your name! It's Barlow!"
And fled. 
STEPHEN KING ? 65
By the time he reached the front hall the fear had come on him full
again, and if the door had not been unlocked he might have burst straight
through the center of it, leaving a cartoon cutout of himself behind.
He fled down the driveway and then straight down the center of the
Brooks Road toward town and dubious safety. Yet might not the king
vampire come after him, even now?
He swerved off the road and made his way blunderingly through the
woods, splashing through Taggart Stream and falling in a tangle of burdocks on the other side, and finally out into his own back yard.
He walked through the kitchen door and looked through the arch into the
living room to where his mother, with worry written across her face in large
letters, was talking into the telephone with the directory open on her lap.
She looked up and saw him, and relief spread across her face in a
physical wave.
"-here he is-"
She set the phone into its cradle without waiting for a response and
walked toward him. He saw with greater sorrow than she would have
believed that she had been crying.
"Oh, Mark ... where have you been?"
"He's home?" His father called from the den. His face, unseen, was
filling with thunder.
"Where have you been?" She caught his shoulders and shook them.
"Out," he said wanly. "I fell down running home."
There was nothing else to say. The essential and defining characteristic
of childhood is not the effortless merging of dream and reality, but only
alienation. There are no words for childhood's dark turns and exhalations.
A wise child recognizes it and submits to the necessary consequences. A
child who counts the cost is a child no longer.
He added: "The time got away from me. It-"
Then his father, descending upon him.
Some time in the darkness before 1v1onday's dawn.
Scratching at the window.
He came up from sleep with no pause, no intervening period of drowsiness or orientation. The insanities of sleep and waking had become remarkably similar.
The white face in the darkness outside the glass was Susan's.
"Mark ... let me in."
He got out of bed. The floor was cold under his bare feet. He was
shivering.
"Go away," he said tonelessly. He could see that she was still wearing
the same blouse, the same slacks. I wonder if her folks are worried, he
thought. If they've called the police.
"It's not so bad, Mark," she said, and her eyes were flat and obsidian.
She smiled, showing her teeth, which shone in sharp relief below her pale 
66 ?SALEM's LoT
gums. "It's ever so nice. Let me in, I'll show you. I'll kiss you, Mark. I'll
kiss you all over like your mother never did."
"Go away," he repeated.
"One of us will get you sooner or later," she said. "There are lots more
of us now. Let it be me, Mark. I'm ... I'm hungry." She tried to smile,
but it turned into a nightshade grimace that made his bones cold.
He held up his cross and pressed it against the window.
She hissed, as if scalded, and let go of the window frame. For a moment
she hung suspended in air, her body becoming misty and indistinct. Then,
gone. But not before he saw (or thought he saw) a look of desperate
unhappiness on her face.
The night was still and silent again.
There are lots more of us now.
His thoughts turned to his parents, sleeping in thoughtless peril below
him, and dread gripped his bowels.
Some men knew, she had said, or suspected.
Who?
The writer, of course. The one she dated. Mears, his name was. He
lived at Eva's boardinghouse. Writers knew a lot. It would be him. And
he would have to get to Mears before she didHe stopped on his way back to bed.
If she hadn't already. 
THE PS)?CHOLOGICAL
VAMPIRE
U
nlike their bloodthirsty brethren, psychological vampires are more
subtle in their depredations and far more difficult to detect. They
may, however, be the one variety of "vampire" that almost everyone
has encountered in real life. Who among us does not know at least one
individual whose very presence drains all the life and energy from any occasion? Psychological vampires are not confined to the pages of fiction; the
world has its share of dangerously needy people who, like Luella Miller,
batten onto unsuspecting prey in all sorts of parasitic relationships.
Psychological vampire fiction is largely a twentieth-century phenomenon;
one might argue that it is a uniquely post-Freudian genre. Certainly, as the
century has progressed, the psychodynamics of behavior have occupied our
culture. The first twentieth-century vampire novel is George Sylvester Viereck's The House of the Vampire (1907), in which a celebrated artist, Reginald
Clarke, drains his friends of their creativity rather than their blood.
Because of their realistic nature, most psychological vampires in modern
fiction probably lurk unexposed in the pages of mainstream fiction; note
the inclusion in this section of stories by John Cheever and Joyce Carol
Oates. Psychological vampirism, both as reality and metaphor, has been
explored most thoroughly via the short story.
In all but one of the stories that follow, the vampire craves and steals
energy, life energy or mind energy, or what used to be called "elan vital."
In Oates's Bellefleur, the word "steal" perhaps overstates the case, because
Oates's Veronica is fascinated by her vampire and is more than half willing to have him take whatever he wants, energy or blood. And in Algernon
Blackwood's "The Transfer," we see two vampiric forces in collision; the
one that is morally evil is engulfed. Other stories, not included here, such
as " ... To Feel Another's Woe" by Chet Williamson and "The Slug"
by the late Karl Edward Wagner, even return to the theme of creative
vampirism first explored decades ago in The House of the Vampire. Vampirism, as a fictional conceit, provides both writers and readers with a
useful and astonishingly versatile tool for exploring the darker aspects of
human relationships and psychology. 
MARY E. WILKINS-FREEMAN
(1852-1930)
Born in Randolph, Massachusetts, the daughter of a carpenter, Mary E.
Wilkins-Freeman was a schoolteacher who occasionally published books
for extra income. She began her career writing children's poetry, and in
18 82 published her first adult story, "The Beggar King. " When she was
nearly fifty she married Dr. Charles Freeman, an alcoholic who, eighteen
years later, was committed to a state hospital for the insane.
Wilkins-Freeman was a sensitive writer of focal color fiction (A New
England Nun and Other Stories, 1 891) and tales of the supernatural (fhe
Wind in the Rosebush and Other Supernatural Ghost Stories, 1 903); her
prose is simple and lucid, cloaking an extraordinarily perceptive and complex intelligence.
She produced dozens of volumes of short stories and as many novels.
Her works include Pembroke (1 894), The Heart's Highway: A Romance
of Virginia in the Seventeenth Century (1 900), The Portion of Labor
(1 901), Six Trees (1 903), and The Givers (1 904), as well as an early
collection of short fiction, titled A Humble Romance and Other Stories
(1 891).
The following story, "Luella Miller, " presents us with an early example
of psychological vampire fiction, in which we find the bland and innocent
Luella Miller ingesting the well-being of those who care for her. The
opening passage sets up the intimate ambiance of a village in which everyone knows everyone else by sight. We have Luella Miller, and we have
the presence of evil in the village.
Luella seems "strange"-the way she sits, the way she walks-but that
strangeness is hardly as horrifying as Luella's ability to swallow other
people's energy. The horror is built up in such small increments that when
the reader has finished the tale, one of Luella's earlier mild remarks, "I
never made coffee in all my life, " takes on all the portentousness of a
death knell. 
LUELlJ\ MILLER
'
Close to the village street stood the one-story house in which
Luella Miller, who had an evil name in the village, had dwelt. She had
been dead for years, yet there were those in the village who, in spite of
the clearer light which comes on a vantage-point from a long-past danger,
half believed in the tale which they had heard from their childhood. In
their hearts, although they scarcely would have owned it, was a survival
of the wild horror and frenzied fear of their ancestors who had dwelt in
the same age with Luella Miller. Young people even would stare with a
shudder a[ the old house as they passed, and children never played around
it as was their wont around an untenanted building. Not a window in
the old Miller house was broken: the panes reflected the morning sunlight
in patches of emerald and blue, and the latch of the sagging front door
was never lifted, although no bolt secured it. Since Luella Miller had been
carried out of it, the house had had no tenant except one friendless old
soul who had no choice between that and the far-off shelter of the open
sky. This old woman, who had survived her kindred and friends, lived in
the house one week, then one morning no smoke came out of the chimney,
and a body of neighbours, a score strong, entered and found her dead in
her bed. There were dark whispers as to the cause of her death, and there
were those who testified to an expression of fear so exalted that it showed
forth the state of the departing soul upon the dead face. The old woman
had been hale and hearty when she entered the house, and in seven days
she was dead; it seemed that she had fallen a victim to some uncanny
power. The minister talked in the pulpit with covert severity against the
sin of superstition; still the brief prevailed. Not a soul in the village but
would have chosen the almshouse rather than that dwelling. No vagrant,
if he heard the tale, would seek shelter beneath that old roof, unhallowed
by nearly half a century of superstitious fear.
There was only one person in the village who had actually known
Luella Miller. That person was a woman well over eighty, but a marvel
of vitality and unextinct youth. Straight as an arrow, with the spring of
one recently let loose from the bow of life, she moved about the streets,
and she always went to church, rain or shine. She had never married, and
had lived alone for years in a house across the road from Luella Miller's.
This woman had none of the garrulousness of age, but never in all her
life had she ever held her tongue for any will save her own, and she never
spared the truth when she essayed to present it. She it was who bore
tesrimony to the life, evil, though possibly wittingly or designedly so, of
Luella Miller, and to her personal appearance. When this old woman 
70 ?
?)}.)}WI LUELLA MILLER
spoke-and she had the gift of description, although her thoughts were
clothed in the rude vernacular of her native village-one could seem to
see Luella Miller as she had really looked. According to this woman,
Lydia Anderson by name, Luella Miller had been a beauty of a type rather
unusual in New England. She had been a slight, pliant sort of creature,
as ready with a strong yielding to fate and as unbreakable as a willow.
She had glimmering lengths of straight, fair hair, which she wore softly
looped around a long, lovely face. She had blue eyes full of soft pleading,
little slender, clinging hands, and a wonderful grace of motion and
attitude.
"Luella Miller used to sit in a way nobody else could if they sat up
and studied a week of Sundays," said Lydia Anderson, "and it was a
sight to see her walk. If one of them willows over there on the edge of
the brook could start up and get its roots free of the ground, and move
off, it would go just the way Luella Miller used to. She had a green shot
silk she used to wear, too, and a hat with green ribbon streamers, and a
lace veil blowing across her face and out sideways, and a green ribbon
flyin' from her waist. That was what she came out bride in when she
married Erastus Miller. Her name before she was married was Hill. There
was always a sight of "l's" in her name, married or single. Erastus Miller
was good lookin', too, better lookin' than Luella. Sometimes I used to
think that Luella wa'n't so handsome after all. Erastus just about wor ..
shiped her. I used to know him pretty well. He lived next door to me, and
we went to school together. Folks used to say he was waitin' on me, but he
wa'n't. I never thought he was except once or twice when he said things
that some girls might have suspected meant somethin'. That was before Luella
came here to teach the district school. It was funny how she came to get it,
for folks said she hadn't any education, and that one of the big girls,
Lottie Henderson, used to do all the teachin' for her, while she sat back
and did embroidery work on a cambric pocket-handkerchief. Lottie Henderson was a real smart girl, a splendid scholar, and she j ust set her eyes
by Luella, as all the girls did. Lottie would have made a real smart woman,
but she died when Luella had been here about a year-just faded away
and died: nobody knew what ailed her. She dragged herself to that schoolhouse and helped Luella teach till the very last minute. The committee all
knew how Luella didn't do much of the work herself, but they winked
at it. It wa'n't long after Lottie died that Erastus married her. I always
thought he hurried it up because she wa'n't fit to teach. One of the big
boys used to help her after Lottie died, but he hadn't much government,
and the school didn't do very well, and Luella might have had to give it
up, for the committee couldn't have shut their eyes to things much longer.
The boy that helped her was a real honest, innocent sort of fellow, and
he was a good scholar, too. Folks said he overstudied, and that was the
reason he was took crazy the year after Luella married, but I don't know.
And I don't know what made Erastus Miller go into consumption of the 
MARY E. WILKINS-. f R EEMAN ? ?)_0}-LJI 71
blood the year after he was married: consumption wa'n't in his family.
He j ust grew weaker and weaker, and went almost bent double when he
tried to wait on Luella, and he spoke feeble, like an old man. He worked
terrible hard till the last trying to save up a little to leave Luella. I've seen
him out in the worst storms on a wood-sled-he used to cut and sell wood-­
and he was hunched up on top lookiin' more dead than alive. Once I couldn't
stand it: I went over and helped him pitch some wood on the cart-! was
always strong in my arms. I wouldn't stop for all he told me to, and I
guess he was glad enough for the help. That was only a week before he
died. He fell on the kitchen floor while he was gettin' breakfast. He always
got the breakfast and let Luella lay abed. He did all the sweepin' and the
washin' and the ironin' and most of the cookin'. He couldn't bear to have
Luella lift her finger, and she let him do for her. She lived like a queen
for all the work she did. She didn't even do her sewin'. She said it made
her shoulder ache to sew, and poor Erastus's sister Lily used to do all her
sewin'. She wa'n't able to, either; she was never strong in her back, but
she did it beautifully. She had to, to suit Luella, she was so dreadful
particular. I never saw anythin' like the fagottin' and hemstitchin' that
Lily Miller did for Luella. She made all Luella's weddin' outfit, and that
green silk dress, after Maria Babbit cut it. Maria she cut it for nothin',
and she did a lot more cuttin' and fittin' for nothin' for Luella, too. Lily
Miller went to live with Luella after Erastus died. She gave up her home,
though she was real attached to it and wa'n't a mite afraid to stay alone.
She rented it and she went to live with Luella right away after the
funeral."
Then this old woman, Lydia A nderson, who remembered Luella Miller,
would go on to relate the story of Lily Miller. It seemed that on the
removal of Lily Miller to the house of her dead brother, to live with his
widow, the village people first began to talk. This Lily Miller had been
hardly past her first youth, and a most robust and blooming woman,
rosy-cheeked, with curls of strong, black hair overshadowing round, candid temples and bright dark eyes. It was not six months after she had
taken up her residence with her sister-in-law that her rosy color faded
and her pretty curves became wan hollows. White shadows began to show
in the black rings of her hair, and the light died out of her eyes, her
features sharpened, and there were pathetic lines at her mouth, which yet
wore always an expression of utter sweetness and even happiness. She
was devoted to her sister; there was no doubt that she loved her with her
whole heart, and was perfectly content in her service. It was her sole
anxiety lest she should die and leave her alone.
"The way Lily Miller used to talk about Luella was enough to make
you mad and enough to make you cry," said Lydia Anderson. "I've been
in there sometimes toward the last when she was too feeble to cook and
carried her some blanc-mange or custard-somethin' I thought she might
relish and she'd thank me, and when I asked her how she was, say she 
72 m])
?].)¥-JI LUELLA M ILLER
felt better than she did yesterday, and asked me if I didn't think she
looked better, dreadful pitiful, and say poor Luella had an awful time
takin' care of her and doin' the work-she wa'n't strong enough to do
anythin'-when all the time Luella wa'n't liftin' her finger and poor Lily
didn't get any care except what the neighbours gave her, and Luella eat up
everythin' that was carried in for Lily. I had it real straight that she did.
Luella used to just sit and cry and do nothin'. She did act real fond of Lily,
and she pined away considerable, too. There was those that thought she'd
go into a decline herself. But after Lily died, her Aunt Abby Mixter came,
and then Luella picked up and grew as fat and rosy as ever. But poor
Aunt Abby begun to droop j ust the way Lily had, and I guess somebody
wrote to her married daughter, Mrs. Sam Abbot, who lived in Barre, for
she wrote her mother that she must leave right away and come and make
her a visit, but Aunt Abby wouldn't go. I can see her now. She was a
real good-lookin' woman, tall and large, with a big, square face and a
high forehead that looked of itself kind of benevolent and good. She just
tended out on Luella as if she had been a baby, and when her married
daughter sent for her she wouldn't stir one inch. She'd always thought a
lot of her daughter, too, but she said Luella needed her and her married
daughter didn't. Her daughter kept writin' and writin', but it didn't do
any good. Finally she came, and when she saw how bad her mother
looked, she broke down and cried and all but went on her knees to have
her come away. She spoke her mind out to Luella, too. She told her that
she'd killed her husband and everybody that had anythin' to do with her,
and she'd thank her to leave her mother alone. Luella went into hysterics,
and Aunt Abby was so frightened that she called me after her daughter
went. Mrs. Sam Abbot she went away fairly cryin' out loud in the buggy,
the neighbours heard her, and well she might, for she never saw her
mother again alive. I went in that night when Aunt Abby called for me,
standin' in the door with her little green-checked shawl over her head. I
can see her now. 'Do come over here, Miss Anderson,' she sung out, kind
of gasping for breath. I didn't stop for anythin'. I put over as fast as I
could, and when I got there, there was Luella laughin' and cryin' all
together, and Aunt Abby trying to hush her, and all the time she herself
was white as a sheet and shakin' so she could hardly stand. 'For the land
sakes, Mrs. Mixter,' says I, 'you look worse than she does. You ain't fit
to be up out of your bed.'
" 'Oh, there ain't anythin' the matter with me,' says she. Then she went
on talkin' to Luella. 'There, there, don't, don't, poor little lamb,' says she.
'Aunt Abby is here. She ain't goin' away and leave you. Don't, poor
little lamb.'
" 'Do leave her with me, Mrs. Mixter, and you get back to bed,' says
I, for Aunt Abby had been layin' down considerable lately, though somehow she contrived to do the work. 
M ARY E. WILKINS-FREEMAN ? 73
" 'I'm well enough,' says she. 'Don't you think she had better have the
doctor, Miss Anderson?'
" 'The doctor,' says I, 'I think you had better have the doctor. I think
you need him much worse than some folks I could mention.' And I looked
right straight at Luella Miller laughin' and cryin' and goin' on as if she
was the center of all creation. All the time she was actin' so-seemed as
if she was too sick to sense anythin'-she was keepin' a sharp lookout as
to how we took it out of the corner of one eye. I see her. You could
never cheat me about Luella Miller. Finally J got real mad and I run home
and I got a bottle of valerian I had, and I poured some boilin' hot water
on a handful of catnip, and I mixed up that catnip tea with most half a
wineglass of valerian, and I went with it over to Luella's. I marched right
up to Luella, a-holdin' out of that cup, all smokin'. 'Now,' says I, 'Luella
Miller, you swaller this!'
" 'What is-what is it, oh, what is it?' she sort of screeches out. Then
she goes off a-laughin' enough to kill.
" 'Poor lamb, poor little lamb,' says Aunt Abby, standin' over her, all
kind of tottery, and tryin' to bathe her head with camphor.
" 'You swaller this right down, ' says I. And I didn't waste any ceremony. I j ust took hold of Luella Miller's chin and I tipped her head back,
and I caught her mouth open with laughin', and I clapped that cup to
her lips and I fairly hollered at her: 'Swaller, swaller, swaller!' and she
gulped it right down. She had to, and I guess it did her good. Anyhow,
she stopped cryin' and laughin' and let me put her to bed, and she went
to sleep like a baby inside of half an hour. That was more than poor
Aunt Abby did. She lay awake all that night and I stayed with her, though
she tried not to have me; said she wa'n't sick enough for watchers. But I
stayed, and I made some good cornmeal gruel and I fed her a teaspoon
every little while all night long. It seemed to me as if she was jest dyin'
from bein' all wore out. In the mornin' as soon as it was light I run over
to the Bisbees and sent Johnny Bisbee for the doctor. I told him to tell
the doctor to hurry, and he come pretty quick. Poor Aunt Abby didn't
seem to know much of anythin' when he got there. You couldn't hardly
tell she breathed, she was so used up. When the doctor had gone, Luella
came into the room lookin' like a baby in her ruffled nightgown. I can
see her now. Her eyes were as blue and her face all pink and white like
a blossom, and she looked at Aunt Abby in the bed sort of innocent and
surprised. 'Why,' says she, 'Aunt Abby ain't got up yet?'
" 'No, she ain't,' says I, pretty short.
" 'I thought I didn't smell the coffee,' says Luella.
" 'Coffee,' says I. 'I guess if you have coffee this mornin' you'll make
it yourself."
" 'I never made the coffee in all my life,' says she, dreadful astonished.
'Erastus always made the coffee as long as he lived, and then Lily she 
74 @01
?)?.fJI LUELLA MILLER
made it, and then Aunt Abby made it. I don't believe I can make the
coffee, Miss Anderson.'
" 'You can make it or go without, jest as you please,' says I.
" 'Ain't Aunt Abby goin' to get up?' says she.
" 'I guess she won't get up,' says I, 'sick as she is.' I was gettin' madder
and madder. There was somethin' about that little pink-and-white thing
standin' there and talkin' about coffee, when she had killed so many better
folks than she was, and had jest killed another, that made me feel 'most
as if I wished somebody would up and kill her before she had a chance
to do any more harm.
" 'Is Aunt Abby sick?' says Luella, as if she was sort of aggrieved and
injured.
" 'Yes,' says I, 'she's sick, and she's goin' to die, and then you'll be left
alone, and you'll have to do for yourself and wait on yourself, or do
without things.' I don't know but I was sort of hard, but it was the truth,
and if I was any harder than Luella Miller had been I'll give up. I ain't
never been sorry that I said it. Well, Luella, she up and had hysterics
again at that, and I jest let her have 'em. All I did was to bundle her into
the room on the other side of the entry where Aunt Abby couldn't hear
her, if she wa'n't past it-I don't know but she was-and set her down
hard in a chair and told her not to come back into the other room, and
she minded. She had her hysterics in there till she got tired. When she
found out that nobody was comin' to coddle her and do for her she
stopped. At least I suppose she did. I had all I could do with poor Aunt
Abby tryin' to keep the breath of life in her. The doctor had told me that
she was dreadful low, and give me some very strong medicine to give to
her in drops real often, and told me real particular about the nourishment.
Well, I did as he told me real faithful till she wa'n't able to swaller any
longer. Then I had her daughter sent for. I had begun to realize that she
wouldn't last any time at all. I hadn't realized it before, though I spoke
to Luella the way I did. The doctor he came, and Mrs. Sam Abbot, but
when she got there it was too late; her mother was dead. Aunt Abby's
daughter j ust give one look at her mother layin' there, then she turned
sort of sharp and sudden and looked at me.
" 'Where is she?' says she, and I knew she meant Luella.
" 'She's out in the kitchen,' says I. 'She's too nervous to see folks die.
She's afraid it will make her sick.'
"The Doctor he speaks up then. He was a young man. Old Doctor
Park had died the year before, and this was a young fellow j ust out of
college. 'Mrs. Miller is not strong,' says he, kind of severe, 'and she is
quite right in not agitating herself. '
" 'You are another, young man; she's got her pretty claw on you,'
thinks I, but I didn't say anythin' to him. I j ust said over to Mrs. Sam
Abbot that Luella was in the kitchen, and Mrs. Sam Abbot she went out
there, and I went, too, and I never heard anythin' like the way she talked 
MARY E. WILKINS-FREEMAN ? 75
to Luella Miller. I felt pretty hard to Luella myself, but this was more
than I ever would have dared to say. Luella she was too scared to go into
hysterics. She jest flopped. She seemed to jest shrink away to nothin' in
that kitchen chair, with Mrs. Sam Abbot standin' over her and talkin'
and tellin' her the truth. I guess the truth was most too much for her and
no mistake, because Luella presently actually did faint away, and there
wa'n't any sham about it, the way I always suspected there was about
them hysterics. She fainted dead away and we had to lay her flat on the
floor, and the Doctor he came runnin' out and he said somethin' about
a weak heart dreadful fierce to Mrs. Sam Abbot, but she wa'n't a mite
scared. She faced him jest as white as even Luella was layin' there lookin'
like death and the Doctor feelin' of her pulse.
" 'Weak heart,' says she, 'weak heart; weak fiddlesticks! There ain't
nothin' weak about that woman. She's got strength enough to hang onto
other folks till she kills 'em. Weak? It was my poor mother that was
weak: this woman killed her as sure as if she had taken a knife to her.'
"But the Doctor he didn't pay much attention. He was bendin' over
Luella layin' there with her yellow hair all streamin' and her pretty pinkand-white face all pale, and her blue eyes like stars gone out, and he was
holdin' onto her hand and smoothin' her forehead, and tellin' me to get
the brandy in Aunt Abby's room, and I was sure as I wanted to be that
Luella had got somebody else to hang onto, now Aunt Abby was gone,
and I thought of poor Erastus Miller, and I sort of pitied the poor young
Doctor, led away by a pretty face, and I made up my mind I'd see what
I could do.
"I waited till Aunt Abby had been dead and buried about a month,
and the Doctor was gain' to see Luella steady and folks were beginnin'
to talk; then one evenin', when I knew the Doctor had been called out of
town and wouldn't be around, I went over to Luella's. I found her all
dressed up in a blue muslin with white polka dots on it, and her hair
curled jest as pretty, and there wa'n't a young girl in the place could
compare with her. There was somethin' about Luella Miller seemed to
draw the heart right out of you, but she didn't draw it out of me. She
was settin' rocking in the chair by her sittin'-room window, and Maria
Brown had gone home. Maria Brown had been in to help her, or rather
to do the work, for Luella wa'n''t helped when she didn't do anythin'.
Maria Brown was real capable and she didn't have any ties; she wa'n't
married, and lived alone, so she'd offered. I couldn't see why she should
do the work any more than LueHa; she wa'n't any too strong; but she
seemed to think she could and Luella seemed to think so, too, so she
went over and did all the work--washed, and ironed, and baked, while
Luella sat and rocked. Maria didn't live long afterward. She began to fade
away just the same fashion the others had. Well, she was warned, but she
acted real mad when folks said anythin': said Luella was a poor, abused
woman, too delicate to help herself, and they'd ought to be ashamed, and 
76 1
)?1 :2
,..- LUELLA M ILLER
if she died helpin' them that couldn't help themselves she would-and
she did.
" 'I s'pose Maria has gone home,' says I to Luella, when I had gone in
and sat down opposite her.
" 'Yes, Maria went half an hour ago, after she had got supper and
washed the dishes,' says Luella, in her pretty way.
" 'I suppose she has got a lot of work to do in her own house tonight,'
says I, kind of bitter, but that was all thrown away on Luella Miller. It
seemed to her right that other folks that wa'n't any better able than she
was herself should wait on her, and she couldn't get it through her head
that anybody should think it wa'n 't right.
" 'Yes,' says Luella, real sweet and pretty, 'yes, she said she had to do
her washin' tonight. She has let it go for a fortnight along of comin'
over here.'
" 'Why don't she stay home and do her washin' instead of comin' over
here and doin' your work, when you are just as well able, and enough
sight more so, than she is to do it?' says I.
"Then Luella she looked at me like a baby who has a rattle shook at
it. She sort of laughed as innocent as you please. 'Oh, I can't do the work
myself, Miss Anderson,' says she. 'I never did. Maria has to do it.'
"Then I spoke out: 'Has to do it!' says I. 'Has to do it! She don't have
to do it, either. Maria Brown has her own home and enough to live
on. She ain't beholden to you to come over here and slave for you and
kill herself.'
"Luella she jest set and stared at me for all the world like a doll-baby
that was so abused that it was comin' to life.
" 'Yes,' says I, 'she's killin' herself. She's goin' to die j ust the way
Erastus did, and Lily, and your Aunt Abby. You're killin' her jest as you
did them. I don't know what there is about you, but you seem to bring
a curse,' says I. 'You kill everybody that is fool enough to care anythin'
about you and do for you.'
"She stared at me and she was pretty pale.
" 'And Maria ain't the only one you're goin' to kill,' says I. 'You're
goin' to kill Doctor Malcom before you're done with him.'
"Then a red color came flamin' all over her face. 'I ain't goin' to kill
him, either,' says she, and she began to cry.
" 'Yes, you be!' says I. Then I spoke as I had never spoke before. You
see, I felt it on account of Erastus. I told her that she hadn't any business
to think of another man after she'd been married to one that had died
for her: that she was a dreadful woman; and she was, that's true enough,
but sometimes I have wondered lately if she knew it-if she wa'n't like a
baby with scissors in its hand cuttin' everybody without knowin' what it
was doin'.
"Luella she kept gettin' paler and paler, and she never took her eyes
off my face. There was somethin' awful about the way she looked at me 
MARY E. WILKINS-FREEMAN ? 77
and never spoke one word. After awhile I quit talkin' and I went home.
I watched that night, but her lamp went out before nine o'clock, and
when Doctor Malcom came drivin' past and sort of slowed up he see
there wa'n't any light and he drove along. I saw her sort of shy out of
meetin' the next Sunday, too, so he shouldn't go home with her, and I
begun to think mebbe she did have some conscience after all. It was only
a week after that that Maria Brown died-sort of sudden at the last,
though everybody had seen it was comin'. Well, then there was a good
deal of feelin' and pretty dark whispers. Folks said the days of witchcraft
had come again, and they were pretty shy of Luella. She acted sort of
offish to the Doctor and he didn't go there, and there wa'n't anybody to
do anythin' for her. I don't know how she did get along. I wouldn't go
in there and offer to help her-not because I was afraid of dyin' like the
rest but I thought she was just as well able to do her own work as I was
to do it for her, and I thought it was about time that she did it and
stopped killin' other folks. But it wa'n't very long before folks began to
say that Luella herself was goin' into a decline jest the way her husband,
and Lily, and Aunt Abby and the others had, and I saw myself that she
looked pretty bad. I used to see her goin' past from the store with a
bundle as if she could hardly crawl, but I remembered how Erastus used
to wait and 'tend when he couldn't hardly put one foot before the other,
and I didn't go out to help her.
"But at last one afternoon I saw the Doctor come drivin' up like mad
with his medicine chest, and Mrs. Babbit came in after supper and said
that Luella was real sick.
" 'I'd offer to go in and nurse her,' says she, 'but I've got my children
to consider, and mebbe it ain't true what they say, but it's queer how
folks that have done for her have died.'
"I didn't say anythin', but I considered how she had been Erastus's wife
and how he had set his eyes by her, and I made up my mind to go in the
next mornin', unless she was better, and see what I could do; but the
next mornin' I see her at the window, and pretty soon she came steppin'
out as spry as you please, and a little while afterward Mrs. Babbit came
in and told me that the Doctor had got a girl from out of town, a Sarah
Jones, to come there, and she said she was pretty sure that the Doctor
was goin' to marry Luella.
"I saw him kiss her in the door that night myself, and I knew it was
true. The woman came that afternoon, and the way she flew around was
a caution. I don't believe Luella had swept since Maria died. She swept
and dusted, and washed and ironed; wet clothes and dusters and carpets
were flyin' over there all day, and every time Luella set her foot out when
the Doctor wa'n't there there was that Sarah Jones helpin' of her up and
down the steps, as if she hadn't learned to walk.
"Well, everybody knew that Luella and the Doctor were goin' to be
married, but it wa'n't long before they began to talk about his lookin' so 
78 ?
?J:.)}lJI LUEL LA M I LLER
poorly, jest as they had about the others; and they talked about Sarah
Jones, too.
"Well, the Doctor did die, and he wanted to be married first, so as to
leave what little he had to Luella, but he died before the minister could
get there, and Sarah Jones died a week afterward.
"Well, that wound up everything for Luella Miller. Not another soul
in the whole town would lift a finger for her. There got to be a sort of
panic. Then she began to droop in good earnest. She used to have to go
to the store herself, for Mrs. Babbit was afraid to let Tommy go for her,
and I've seen her goin' past and stoppin' every two or three steps to rest.
Well, I stood it as long as I could, but one day I see her comin' with her
arms full and stoppin' to lean against the Babbit fence, and I run out and
took her bundles and carried them to her house. Then I went home and
never spoke one word to her though she called after me dreadful kind of
pitiful. Well, that night I was taken sick with a chill, and I was sick as I
wanted to be for two weeks. Mrs. Babbit had seen me run out to help
Luella and she came in and told me I was goin' to die on account of it.
I didn't know whether I was or not, but I considered I had done right by
Erastus's wife.
"That last two weeks Luella she had a dreadful hard time, I guess. She
was pretty sick, and as near as I could make out nobody dared go near
her. I don't know as she was really needin' anythin' very much, for there
was enough to eat in her house and it was warm weather, and she made
out to cook a little flour gruel every day, I know, but I guess she had a
hard time, she that had been so petted and done for all her life.
"When I got so I could go out, I went over there one morning. Mrs.
Babbit had j ust come in to say she hadn't seen any smoke and she didn't
know but what it was somebody's duty to go in, but she couldn't help
thinkin' of her children, and I got right up, though I hadn't been out of
the house for two weeks, and I went in there, and Luella she was layin'
on the bed, and she was dyin'.
"She lasted all that day and into the night. But I sat there after the new
doctor had gone away. Nobody else dared to go there. It was about
midnight that I left her for a minute to run home and get some medicine
I had been takin', for I begun to feel rather bad.
"It was a full moon that night, and just as I started out of my door to
cross the street back to Luella's, I stopped short, for I saw something."
Lydia Anderson at this juncture always said with a certain defiance that
she did not expect to be believed, and then proceeded in a hushed voice:
"I saw what I saw, and I know I saw it, and I will swear on my death
bed that I saw it. I saw Luella Miller and Erastus Miller, and Lily, and
Aunt Abby, and Maria, and the Doctor, and Sarah, all goin' out her door,
and all but Luella shone white in the moonlight, and they were all helpin'
her along till she seemed to fairly fly in the midst of them. Then it all
disappeared. I stood a minute with my heart poundin', then I went over 
MARY E. WILKINS- F REEMAN ? 79
there. I thought of goin' for Mrs. Babbit, but I thought she'd be afraid.
So I went alone, though I knew what had happened. Luella was layin'
real peaceful, dead on her bed."
This was the story that the old woman, Lydia Anderson, told, but the
sequel was told by the people who survived her, and this is the tale which
has become folklore in the village.
Lydia Anderson died when she was eighty-seven. She had continued
wonderfully hale and hearty for one of her years until about two weeks
before her death.
One bright moonlight evening she was sitting beside a window in her
parlor when she made a sudden exclamation, and was out of the house
and across the street before the neighbor who was taking care of her
could stop her. She followed as fast as possible and found Lydia Anderson
stretched on the ground before the door of Luella Miller's deserted house,
and she was quite dead.
The next night there was a red gleam of fire athwart the moonlight and
the old house of Luella Miller was burned to the ground. Nothing is now
left of it except a few old cellar stones and a lilac bush, and in summer
a helpless trail of morning glories among the weeds, which might be
considered emblematic of Luella herself. 
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD
(1869-1951)
Born into a distinguished family in England, Algernon Blackwood spent
a poverty-stricken young manhood in Canada. After working a few odd
jobs there and in New York, he returned to England in 1 899.
Blackwood's first book of short stories, The Empty House, was published in 1 906. The following year The Listener was published, which
contains his best-known work, "The Willows. " He also penned the novels
Jimbo (1 909), The Centaur (1 91 1 ), and A Prisoner in Fairyland (1 913).
His other collections of short stories include Pan's Garden (1 912), The
Dance of Death (1 92 7), John Silence (1 908), and Tales of the Uncanny
and Supernatural (1 949).
Blackwood believed in the supernatural. He was only one of a number
of successful authors belonging to the Order of the Golden Dawn, an
occult society created in 1 888 by Samuel Lidell MacGregor Mathers and
whose most infamous member was Aleister Crowley, a well-known occultist whose scandalous reputation persists to this day. Members of this
group produced much of the United Kingdom's horror fiction of the time
(one report lists Bram Stoker as a member).
Blackwood's supernatural fiction often focuses on outdoor scenes. He
was a believer in the unseen powers that reside in people and places, and
made his short stories turn on that belief, as in "The Man Whom the
Trees Loved" (1 912) in which he writes, "We must believe that in plants
there exists a faint copy of what we know as consciousness in ourselves."
In other tales, islands, meadows, and rivers seem to remember the events
that have taken place in or near them. One such tale is the remarkable
"The Willows, " in which a clump of willows on an island in a river are
the malevolent force. Another, equally terrifying, is "The Doll" (1 946) in
which the doll is an agent of vengeance.
"The Transfer" could well fit into more than one of the categories
identified in this anthology, for example that of Non-Human Vampire. It
is placed here because the two forces that clash are both vampiric, although it is psychic energy, not blood, that is engulfed in the battle between them. This struggle of avidities ends, to the delight of the reader,
in the triumph of poetic justice. 
THE TRANSFER WI The chcld bcgon w ccy in the wly of<emonn-obnot ch<ec
o'clock, to be exact. I remember the hour, because I had been listening
with secret relief to the sound of the departing carriage. Those wheels
fading into the distance down the gravel drive with Mrs. Frene, and her
daughter Gladys to whom I was governess, meant for me some hours'
welcome rest, and the June day was oppressively hot. Moreover, there
was this excitement in the little country household that had told upon us
all, but especially upon myself. This excitement, running delicately behind
all the events of the morning, was due to some mystery, and the mystery
was of course kept concealed from the governess. I had exhausted myself
with guessing and keeping on the watch. For some deep and unexplained
anxiety possessed me, so that I kept thinking of my sister's dictum that I
was really much too sensitive to make a good governess, and that I should
have done far better as a professional clairvoyant.
Mr. Frene, senior, "Uncle Frank," was expected for an unusual visit
from town about tea-time. That I knew. I also knew that his visit was
concerned somehow with the future welfare of little Jamie, Gladys' sevenyear-old brother. More than this, indeed, I never knew, and this missing
link makes my story in a fashion incoherent-an important bit of the
strange puzzle left out. I only gathered that the visit of Uncle Frank was
of a condescending nature, that Jamie was told he must be upon his very
best behavior to make a good impression, and that Jamie, who had never
seen his uncle, dreaded him horribly already in advance. Then, trailing
thinly through the dying crunch of the carriage wheels this sultry afternoon, I heard the curious little wail of the child's crying, with the effect,
wholly unaccountable, that every nerve in my body shot its bolt electrically, bringing me to my feet with a tingling of unequivocal alarm. Positively, the water ran into my eyes. I recalled his white distress that morning
when told that Uncle Frank was motoring down for tea and that he was
to be "very nice indeed" to him. It had gone into me like a knife. All
through the day, indeed, had run this nightmare quality of terror and
VISIOn.
"The man with the 'normous face?" he had asked in a little voice of
awe, and then gone speechless from the room in tears that no amount of
soothing management could calm. That was all I saw; and what he meant
by "the 'normous face" gave me only a sense of vague presentiment. But
it came as anticlimax somehow-a sudden revelation of the mystery and
excitement that pulsed beneath the quiet of the stifling summer day. I
feared for him. For of all that commonplace household I loved Jamie best, 
82 S9 :z THE TRANSFER
though professionally I had nothing to do with him. He was a highstrung, ultra-sensitive child, and it seemed to me that no one understood
him, least of all his honest, tender-hearted parents; so that his little wailing
voice brought me from my bed to the window in a moment like a call
for help.
The haze of June lay over that big garden like a blanket; the wonderful
flowers, which were Mr. Frene's delight, hung motionless; the lawns, so
soft and thick, cushioned all other sounds; only the limes and huge clumps
of guelder roses hummed with bees. Through this muted atmosphere of
heat and haze the sound of the child's crying floated faintly to my earsfrom a distance. Indeed, I wonder now that I heard it at all, for the next
moment I saw him down beyond the garden, standing in his white sailor
suit alone, two hundred yards away. He was down by the ugly patch
where nothing grew-the Forbidden Corner. A faintness then came over
me at once, a faintness as of death, when I saw him there of all placeswhere he never was allowed to go, and where, moreover, he was usually
too terrified to go. To see him standing solitary in that singular spot,
above all to hear him crying there, bereft me momentarily of the power
to act. Then, before I could recover my composure sufficiently to call him
in, Mr. Frene came round the corner from the Lower Farm with the dogs,
and, seeing his son, performed that office for me. In his loud, goodnatured, hearty voice he called him, and Jamie turned and ran as though
some spell had broken just in time-ran into the open arms of his fond
but uncomprehending father, who carried him indoors on his shoulder,
while asking "what all this hubbub was about?" And, at their heels, the
tailless sheep dogs followed, barking loudly, and performing what Jamie
called their "Gravel Dance," because they ploughed up the moist, rolled
gravel with their feet.
I stepped back swiftly from the window lest I should be seen. Had I
witnessed the saving of the child from fire or drowning the relief could
hardly have been greater. Only Mr. Frene, I felt sure, would not say and
do the right thing quite. He would protect the boy from his own vain
imaginings, yet not with the explanation that could really heal. They disappeared behind the rose trees, making for the house. I saw no more till
later, when Mr. Frene, senior, arrived.
To describe the ugly patch as "singular" is hard to justify, perhaps, yet
some such word is what the entire family sought, though never-oh,
never!-used. To Jamie and myself, though equally we never mentioned
it, that treeless, flowerless spot was more than singular. It stood at the
far end of the magnificent rose garden, a bald, sore place, where the black
earth showed uglily in winter, almost like a piece of dangerous bog, and
in summer baked and cracked with fissures where green lizards shot their
fire in passing. In contrast to the rich luxuriance of death amid life, a
center of disease that cried for healing lest it spread. But it never did 
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD ? 83
spread. Behind it stood the thick wood of silver birches and, glimmering
beyond, the orchard meadow, where the lambs played.
The gardeners had a very simple explanation of its barrenness-that
the water all drained off it owing to the lie of the slopes immediately
about it, holding no remnant to keep the soil alive. I cannot say. It was
Jamie-Jamie who felt its spell and haunted it, who spent whole hours
there, even while afraid, and for whom it was finally labeled "strictly out
of bounds" because it stimulated his already big imagination, not wisely
but too darkly-it was Jamie who buried ogres there and heard it crying
in an earthly voice, swore that it shook its surface sometimes while he
watched it, and secretly gave it food in the form of birds or mice or
rabbits he found dead upon his wanderings. And it was Jamie who put
so extraordinarily into words the f"eeling that the horrid spot had given
me from the moment I first saw it.
"It's bad, Miss Gould," he told me.
"But, Jamie, nothing in Nature is bad-exactly; only different from the
rest sometimes."
"Miss Gould, if you please, tlhen it's empty. It's not fed. It's dying
because it can't get the food it wants."
And when I stared into the little pale face where the eyes shone so dark
and wonderful, seeking within myself for the right thing to say to him,
he added, with an emphasis and conviction that made me suddenly turn
cold: "Miss Gould"-he always used my name like this in all his sentences-"it's hungry, don't you see? But I know what would make it feel
all right."
Only the conviction of an earnest child, perhaps, could have made so
outrageous a suggestion worth listening to for an instant; but for me, who
felt that things an imaginative child believed were important, it came with
a vast disquieting shock of reality. Jamie, in this exaggerated way, had
caught at the edge of a shocking fact-a hint of dark, undiscovered truth
that leaped into that sensitive imagination. Why there lay horror in the
words I cannot say, but I think some power of darkness trooped across
the suggestion of that sentence at the end, "I know what would make it
feel all right." I remember that I shrank from asking explanation. Small
groups of other words, veiled fortunately by his silence, gave life to an
unspeakable possibility that hitherto had lain at the back of my own
consciousness. The way it sprang to life proves, I think, that my mind
already contained it. The blood rushed from my heart as I listened. I
remember that my knees shook. Jamie's idea was-had been all along-­
my own as well.
And now, as I lay down on my bed and thought about it all, I understood why the coming of his uncle involved somehow an experience that
wrapped terror at its heart. With a sense of nightmare certainty that left
me too weak to resist the preposterous idea, too shocked, indeed, to argue
or reason it away, this certainty came with its full, black blast of convic-
84 ?
?).;)}WI THE TRANSFER
tion; and the only way I can put 1t mto words, since nightmare horror
really is not properly tellable at all, seems this: that there was something
missing in that dying patch of garden; something lacking that it ever
searched for; something, once found and taken, that would turn it rich
and living as the rest; more-that there was some living person who could
do this for it. Mr. Frene, senior, in a word, "Uncle Frank," was this
person who out of his abundant life could supply the lack-unwittingly.
For this connection between the dying, empty patch and the person of
this vigorous, wealthy, and successful man had already lodged itself in
my subconsciousness before I was aware of it. Clearly it must have lain
there all along, though hidden. Jamie's words, his sudden pallor, his vibrating emotion of fearful anticipation had developed the plate, but it was
his weeping alone there in the Forbidden Corner that had printed it. The
photograph shone framed before me in the air. I hid my eyes. But for the
redness-the charm of my face goes to pieces unless my eyes are clearI could have cried. Jamie's words that morning about the " 'normous
face" came back upon me like a battering ram.
Mr. Frene, senior, had been so frequently the subject of conversation
in the family since I came, I had so often heard him discussed, and had
then read so much about him in the papers-his energy, his philanthropy,
his success with everything he laid his hand to-that a picture of the man
had grown complete within me. I knew him as he was-within; or, as my
sister would have said-clairvoyantly. And the only time I saw him (when
I took Gladys to a meeting where he was chairman, and later felt his
atmosphere and presence while for a moment he patronizingly spoke with
her) had justified the portrait I had drawn. The rest, you may say, was a
woman's wild imagining; but I think rather it was that kind of divining
intuition which women share with children. If souls could be made visible,
I would stake my life upon the truth and accuracy of my portrait.
For this Mr. Frene was a man who drooped alone, but grew vital in a
crowd-because he used their vitality. He was a supreme, unconscious
artist in the science of taking the fruits of others' work and living-for
his own advantage. He vampired, unknowingly no doubt, every one with
whom he came in contact; left them exhausted, tired, listless. Others fed
him, so that while in a full room he shone, alone by himself and with no
life to draw upon he languished and declined. In the man's immediate
neighborhood you felt his presence draining you; he took your ideas, your
strength, your very words, and later used them for his own benefit and
aggrandizement. Not evilly, of course; the man was good enough; but you
felt that he was dangerous owing to the facile way he absorbed into
himself all loose vitality that was to be had. His eyes and voice and
presence devitalized you. Life, it seemed, not highly organized enough to
resist, must shrink from his too near approach and hide away for fear of
being appropriated, for fear, that is, of-death.
Jamie, unknowingly, put in the finishing touch to my unconscious por-
ALGE RNON B LACKWOOD ? 85
trait. The man carried about with him some silent, compelling trick of
drawing out all your reserves-then swiftly pocketing them. At first you
would be conscious of taut resistance; this would slowly shade off into
weariness; the will would become flaccid; then you either moved away or
yielded-agreed to all he said with a sense of weakness pressing ever
closer upon the edges of collapse. With a male antagonist it might be
different, but even then the effort of resistance would generate force that
he absorbed and not the other. He never gave out. Some instinct taught
him how to protect himself from that. To human beings, I mean, he never
gave out. This time it was a very different matter. He had no more chance
than a fly before the wheels of a huge-what Jamie used to call-"attraction" engine.
So this was how I saw him-·a great human sponge, crammed and
soaked with the life, or proceeds of life, absorbed from others-stolen.
My idea of a human vampire was satisfied. He went about carrying these
accumulations of the life of others. In this sense his "life" was not really
his own. For the same reason, I thiink, it was not so fully under his control
as he imagined.
And in another hour this man would be here. I went to the window.
My eye wandered to the empty patch, dull black there amid the rich
luxuriance of the garden flowers. It struck me as a hideous bit of emptiness
yawning to be filled and nourished. The idea of Jamie playing round its
bare edge was loathsome. I watched the big summer clouds above, the
stillness of the afternoon, the haze. The silence of the over-heated garden
was oppressive. I had never felt a day so stifling, motionless. It lay there
waiting. The household, too, was waiting-waiting for the coming of Mr.
Frene from London in his big motor-car.
And I shall never forget the sensation of icy shrinking and distress with
which I heard the rumble of the car. He had arrived. Tea was all ready
on the lawn beneath the lime tr(?es, and Mrs. Frene and Gladys, back
from their drive, were sitting in wicker chairs. Mr. Frene, junior, was in
the hall to meet his brother, but Jamie, as I learned afterward, had shown
such hysterical alarm, offered such bold resistance, that it had been
deemed wiser to keep him in his room. Perhaps, after all, his presence
might not be necessary. The visit dearly had to do with something on the
uglier side of life-money, settlements, or what not; I never knew exactly;
only that his parents were anxious, and that Uncle Frank had to be propitiated. It does not matter. That has nothing to do with the affair. What
has to do with it-or I should not be telling the story-is that Mrs. Frene
sent for me to come down "in my nice white dress, if I didn't mind," and
that I was terrified, yet pleased, because it meant that a pretty face would
be considered a welcome addition to the visitor's landscape. Also, most
odd it was, I felt my presence was somehow inevitable, that in some way
it was intended that I should witness what I did witness. And the instant
I came upon the lawn-1 hesitate to set it down, it sounds so foolish, 
86 )\\ :c
_.. THE TRANSFER
disconnected-! could have sworn, as my eyes met his, that a kind of
sudden darkness came, taking the summer brilliance out of everything,
and that it was caused by troops of small black horses that raced about
us from his person-to attack.
After a first momentary approving glance he took no further notice of
me. The tea and talk went smoothly; I helped to pass the plates and cups,
filling in pauses with little undertalk to Gladys. Jamie was never mentioned. Outwardly all seemed well, but inwardly everything was awfulskirting the edge of things unspeakable, and so charged with danger that
I could not keep my voice from trembling when I spoke.
I watched his hard, bleak face; I noticed how thin he was, and the
curious, oily brightness of his steady eyes. They did not glitter, but they
drew you with a sort of soft, creamy shine like Eastern eyes. And everything he said or did announced what I may dare to call the suction of his
presence. His nature achieved this result automatically. He dominated us
all, yet so gently that until it was accomplished no one noticed it.
Before five minutes had passed, however, I was aware of one thing
only. My mind focused exclusively upon it, and so vividly that I marveled
the others did not scream, or run, or do something violent to prevent it.
And it was this; that, separated merely by some dozen yards or so, this
man, vibrating with the acquired vitality of others, stood within easy reach
of that spot of yawning emptiness, waiting and eager to be filled. Earth
scented her prey.
These two active "centers" were within fighting distance; he so thin, so
hard, so keen, yet really spreading large with the loose "surround" of
others' life he had appropriated, so practiced and triumphant; that other
so patient, deep, with so mighty a draw of the whole earth behind it,
and-ugh!-so obviously aware that its opportunity at last had come,
I saw it all as plainly as though I watched two great animals prepare
for battle, both unconsciously; yet in some inexplicable way I saw it, of
course, within me, and not externally. The conflict would be hideously
unequal. Each side had already sent out emissaries, how long before I
could not tell, for the first evidence he gave that something was going
wrong with him was when his voice grew suddenly confused, he missed
his words, and his lips trembled a moment and turned flabby. The next
second his face betrayed that singular and horrid change, growing somehow loose about the bones of the cheek, and larger, so that I remembered
Jamie's miserable phrase. The emissaries of the two kingdoms, the human
and the vegetable, had met, 1 make it out, in that very second. For the
first time in his long career of battening on others, Mr. Frene found
himself pitted against a vaster kingdom than he knew and, so finding,
shook inwardly in that little part that was his definite actual self. He felt
the huge disaster coming.
"Yes, John," he was saying, in his drawling, self-congratulating voice, "Sir
George gave me that car-gave it to me as a present. Wasn't it char-?" 
ALGERNON B LACKWO OD ? 87
and then broke off abruptly, stammered, drew breath, stood up, and
looked uneasily about him. For a second there was a gaping pause. It was
like the click which starts some huge machinery moving-that instant's
pause before it actually starts. The whole thing, indeed, then went with
the rapidity of machinery running down and beyond control. I thought
of a giant dynamo working silently and invisible.
"What's that?" he cried, in a soft voice charged with alarm. "What's
that horrid place? And someone's crying there-who is it?"
He pointed to the empty patch. Then, before anyone could answer, he
started across the lawn toward it, going every minute faster. Before anyone
could move he stood upon the edge. He leaned over-peering down
into it.
It seemed a few hours passed, lbut really they were seconds, for time is
measured by the quality and not the quantity of sensations it contains. I
saw it all with merciless, photographic detail, sharply etched amid the
general confusion. Each side was intensely active, but only one side, the
human, exerted all its force-in resistance. The other merely stretched out
a feeler, as it were, from its vast, potential strength; no more was necessary. It was such a soft and easy victory. Oh, it was rather pitiful! There
was no bluster or great effort, on one side at least. Close by his side I
witnessed it, for I, it seemed, alone had moved and followed him. No one
else stirred, though Mrs. Frene clattered noisily with the cups, making
some sudden impulsive gesture with her hands, and Gladys, I remember,
gave a cry-it was like a little scream-"Oh, mother, it's the heat, isn't
it?" Mr. Frene, her father, was speechless, pale as ashes.
But the instant I reached his side, it became clear what had drawn me
there thus instinctively. Upon the other side, among the silver birches,
stood little Jamie. He was watching. I experienced-for him-one of those
moments that shake the heart; a liquid fear ran all over me, the more
effective because unintelligible really. Yet I felt that if I could know all,
and what lay actually behind, my fear would be more than j ustified; that
the thing was awful, full of awe.
And then it happened-a truly wicked sight-like watching a universe
in action, yet all contained within a small square foot of space. I think
he understood vaguely that if someone could only take his place he might
be saved, and that was why, discerning instinctively the easiest substitute
within reach, he saw the child and called aloud to him across the empty
patch, "James, my boy, come here !"
His voice was like a thin report,. but somehow flat and lifeless, as when
a rifle misses fire, sharp, yet weak; it had no "crack" in it. It was really
supplication. And, with amazement, I heard my own ring out imperious
and strong, though I was not conscious of saying it, "Jamie, don't move.
Stay where you are!" But Jamie, the little child, obeyed neither of us.
Moving up nearer to the edge, he stood there-laughing! I heard that 
88
'>,) .?
1)1l r
,_. THE T RANSFER
laughter, but could have sworn it did not come from him. The empty,
yawning patch gave out that sound.
Mr. Frene turned sideways, throwing up his arms. I saw his hard, bleak
face grow somehow wider, spread through the air, and downward. A
similar thing, I saw, was happening at the same time to his entire person,
for it drew out into the atmosphere in a stream of movement. The face
for a second made me think of those toys of green india rubber that
children pull. It grew enormous. But this was an external impression only.
What actually happened, I clearly understood, was that all this vitality
and life he had transferred from others to himself for years was now in
turn being taken from him and transferred-elsewhere.
One moment on the edge he wobbled horribly, then with that queer
sideways motion, rapid yet ungainly, he stepped forward into the middle
of the patch and fell heavily upon his face. His eyes, as he dropped, faded
shockingly, and across the countenance was written plainly what I can
only call an expression of destruction. He looked utterly destroyed. I
caught a sound-from Jamie?-but this time not of laughter. It was like
a gulp; it was deep and muffled and it dipped away into the earth. Again
I thought of a troop of small black horses galloping away down a subterranean passage beneath my feet-plunging into the depths-their tramping
growing fainter and fainter into buried distance. In my nostrils was a
pungent smell of earth.
And then-all passed. I came back into myself. Mr. Frene, junior, was
lifting his brother's head from the lawn where he had fallen from the
heat, close beside the tea table. He had never really moved from there.
And Jamie, I learned afterward, had been the whole time asleep upon his
bed upstairs, worn out with his crying and unreasoning alarm. Gladys
came running out with cold water, sponge and towel, brandy too-all
kinds of things. "Mother, it was the heat, wasn't it?" I head her whisper,
but I did not catch Mrs. Frene's reply. From her face it struck me that
she was bordering on collapse herself. Then the butler followed, and they
just picked him up and carried him into the house. He recovered even
before the doctor came.
But the queer thing to me is that I was convinced the others all had
seen what I saw, only that no one said a word about it; and to this day
no one has said a word. And that was, perhaps, the most horrid part
of all.
From that day to this I have scarcely heard a mention of Mr. Frene,
senior. It seemed as if he dropped suddenly out of life. The papers never
mentioned him. His activities ceased, as it were. His afterlife, at any rate,
became singularly ineffective. Certainly he achieved nothing worth public
mention. But it may be only that, having left the employ of Mrs. Frene,
there was no particular occasion for me to hear anything.
The afterlife of that empty patch of garden, however, was quite other-
ALGERNON B LACKWOOD ? 89
wise. Nothing, so far as I know, was done to it by gardeners, or in the
way of draining it or bringing in new earth, but even before I left in the
following summer it had changed. It: lay untouched, full of great, luscious,
driving weeds and creepers, very strong, full-fed, and bursting thick
with life. 
FRITZ LEIBER
(I910-I992)
Fritz Leiber was born in Chicago, the son of a Shakespearean actor. He
attended the University of Chicago, including a year at the theological
seminary. His subsequent career spanned stints as an editor and as a
drama teacher. Leiber became interested in writing through correspondence with a college friend, Harry Fischer, with whom he would later
collaborate on many short stories.
Leiber was, like so many of his pulp-fiction contemporaries, an endlessly
prolific writer. In his early career he published stories in both Weird Tales
and Unknown, edited by John W. Campbell, who encouraged his work.
Leiber's first story, "Two Sought Adventure, " introduced Gray Mouser
and Fahfrd, two characters around whom Leiber would, for a half century, base a series of adventures.
Collections of Leiber's short stories include The Ghost Light (1984),
The World of Fritz Leiber (1976}, and The Leiber Chronicles (1 990).
Leiber was the winner of every major American accolade in the field of
science fiction and fantasy, including six Hugo awards, four Nebula
awards, the Bram Stoker Life-Achievement Award, the World Fantasy
Convention's Grandmaster Award, and a score of others.
Throughout his works, such as The Conjure Wife, Leiber explores a
fascination with and contempt for women. This successful early novel is
based on the enduring notion that women retain mystical powers which
men have lost. In "The Snow Women" (1 970) Leiber again has witches
as rulers of their bleak domain.
"The Girl with the Hungry Eyes, " included here, follows a similar
theme. The battle of the sexes is implicit in the tale, as is an endemic
male fear of women. In it, Leiber's photographer-narrator meets "La Belle
Dame Sans Merci, " a woman who is enticingly sexy, mysterious, and
deadly. Prompted by an inexplicable, salubrious fear, he escapes to tell
about it. 
THE GIRL WITH
THE HUNGRY EYES
Au right, I'll tell you why the Girl gives me the creeps. Why I
can't stand to go downtown and see the mob slavering up at her on the
tower, with that pop bottle or pack of cigarettes or whatever it is beside
her. Why I hate to look at magazines any more because I know she'll
turn up somewhere in a brassiere or a bubble bath. Why I don't like to
think of millions of Americans drinking in that poisonous half-smile. It's
quite a story-more story than you're expecting.
No, I haven't suddenly developed any long-haired indignation at the
evils of advertising and the national glamour-girl complex. That'd be a
laugh for a man in my racket, wouldn't it? Though I think you'll agree
there's something a little perverted about trying to capitalize on sex that
way. But it's okay with me. And I know we've had the Face and the Body
and the Look and what not else, so why shouldn't someone come along
who sums it all up so completely, that we have to call her the Girl and
blazon her on all the billboards from Times Square to Telegraph Hill?
But the Girl isn't like any of the others. She's unnatural. She's morbid.
She's unholy.
Oh it's 1 948, is it, and the sort of thing I'm hinting at went out with
witchcraft? But you see I'm not altogether sure myself what I'm hinting
at, beyond a certain point. There are vampires and vampires, and not all
of them suck blood.
And there were the murders, if they were murders.
Besides, let me ask you this. Why, when. America is obsessed with the
Girl, don't we find out more about her? Why doesn't she rate a Time
cover with a droll biography inside? Why hasn't there been a feature in
Life or the Post? A Profile in The New Yorker? Why hasn't Charm or
Mademoiselle done her career saga? Not ready for it? Nuts!
Why haven't the movies snapped her up? Why hasn't she been on Information, Please? Why don't we see her kissing candidates at political rallies? Why isn't she chosen queen of some sort of junk or other at a
convention?
Why don't we read about her tastes and hobbies, her views of the
Russian situation? Why haven't the columnists interviewed her in a kimono on the top floor of the tallest hotel in Manhattan, and told us who
her boyfriends are?
Finally-and this is the real kiHer-why hasn't she ever been drawn
or painted? 
92 ?
?)})}WI THE GIRL W ITH THF HUN GRY EYEs
Oh, no she hasn't. If you knew anything about commercial art you'd
know that. Every blessed one of those pictures was worked up from a
photograph. Expertly? Of course. They've got the top artists on it. But
that's how it's done.
And now I'll tell you the why of all that. It's because from the top to
the bottom of the whole world of advertising, news, and business, there
isn't a solitary soul who knows where the Girl came from, where she
lives, what she does, who she is, even what her name is.
You heard me. What's more, not a single solitary soul ever sees herexcept one poor damned photographer, who's making more money off
her than he ever hoped to in his life and who's scared and miserable as
hell every minute of the day.
No, I haven't the faintest idea who he is or where he has his studio.
But I know there has to be such a man and I'm morally certain he feels
just like I said.
Yes, I might be able to find her, if I tried. I'm not sure though-by
now she probably has other safeguards. Besides, I don't want to.
Oh, I'm off my rocker, am I? That sort of thing can't happen in this
Year of our Atom 1 948? People can't keep out of sight that way, not
even Garbo?
Well I happen to know they can, because last year I was that poor
damned photographer I was telling you about. Yes, last year, in 194 7,
when the Girl made her first poisonous splash right here in this big little
city of ours.
Yes, I knew you weren't here last year and you don't know about it.
Even the Girl had to start small. But if you hunted through the files of
the local newspapers, you'd find some ads, and I might be able to locate
you some of the old displays-! think Lovelybelt is still using one of them.
I used to have a mountain of photos myself, until I burned them.
Yes, I made my cut off her. Nothing like what that other photographer
must be making, but enough so it still bought this whiskey. She was funny
about money. I'll tell you about that.
But first picture me in 1 947. I had a fourth-floor studio in that rathole
the Hauser Building, catty-corner from Ardleigh Park.
I'd been working at the Marsh-Mason studios until I'd got my bellyful
of it and decided to start in for myself. The Hauser Building was
crummy-I'll never forget how the stairs creaked-but it was cheap and
there was a skylight.
Business was lousy. I kept making the rounds of all the advertisers and
agencies, and some of them didn't object to me too much personally, but
my stuff never clicked. I was pretty near broke. I was behind on my rent.
Hell, I didn't even have enough money to have a girl.
It was one of those dark gray afternoons. The building was awfully
quiet-even with the storage they can't half rent the Hauser. I'd just
finished developing some pix I was doing on speculation for Lovelybelt 
FRITZ L EIBER ? 93
Girdles and Buford's Pool and Playground-the last a faked-up beach
scene. My model had left. A Miss Leon. She was a civics teacher at one
of the high schools and modeled for me on the side, just lately on speculation too. After one look at the prints, I decided that Miss Leon probably
wasn't just what Lovelybelt was looking for-or my photography either.
I was about to call it a day.
And then the street door slammed four storeys down and there were
steps on the stairs and she came in.
She was wearing a cheap, shiny black dress. Black pumps. No stockings.
And except that she had a gray cloth coat over one of them, those skinny
arms of hers were bare. Her arms are pretty skinny, you know, or can
you see things like that any more?
And then the thin neck, the slightly gaunt, almost prim face, the tumbling mass of dark hair, and looking out from under it the hungriest eyes
in the world.
That's the real reason she's plastered all over the country today, you
know-those eyes. Nothing vulgar, but just the same they're looking at
you with a hunger that's all sex and something more than sex. That's
what everybody's been looking for since the Year One-something a little
more than sex.
Well, boys, there I was, along with the Girl, in an office that was getting
shadowy, in a nearly empty building. A situation that a million male
Americans have undoubtedly pictured to themselves with various lush
details. How was I feeling? Scared.
I know sex can be frightening. That cold, heart-thumping when you're
alone with a girl and feel you're going to touch her. But if it was sex this
time, it was overlaid with something else.
At least I wasn't thinking about sex.
I remember that I took a backward step and that my hand jerked so
that the photos I was looking at sailed to the floor.
There was the faintest dizzy feeling like something was being drawn
out of me. Just a little bit.
That was all. Then she opened her mouth and everything was back to
normal for a while.
"I see you're a photographer, mister," she said. "Could you use a
model?"
Her voice wasn't very cultivated.
"I doubt it," I told her, picking up the pix. You see, I wasn't impressed.
The commercial possibilities of her eyes hadn't registered on me yet, by
a long shot. "What have you done?"
Well she gave me a vague sort of story and I began to check her knowledge of model agencies and studios and rates and what not and pretty
soon I said to her, "Look here, you never modeled for a photographer in
your life. You just walked in here cold."
Well, she admitted that was more or less so. 
94 m]) ?J.Vl-!JJ THE GIRL WITH THE H UNGRY EYES
All along through our talk I got the idea she was feeling her way, like
someone in a strange place. Not that she was uncertain of herself, or of
me, but just of the general situation.
"And you think a nyone can model?" I asked her pityingly.
"Sure," she said.
"Look," I said, "a photographer can waste a dozen negatives trying to
get one halfway human photo of an average woman. How many do you
think he'd have to waste before he got a real catchy, glamorous pix of
her ?"
"I think I could do it," she said.
Well, I should have kicked her out right then. Maybe I admired the
cool way she stuck to her dumb little guns. Maybe I was touched by her
underfed look. More likely I was feeling mean on account of the way my
pix had been snubbed by everybody and I wanted to take it out on her
by showing her up.
"Okay, I'm going to put you on the spot," I told her. "I'm going to
try a couple of shots of you. Understand, it's strictly on spec. If somebody
should ever want to use a photo of you, which is about one chance in
two million, I'll pay you regular rates for your time. Not otherwise."
She gave me a smile. The first. "That's swell by me," she said.
Well, I took three or four shots, close-ups of her face since I didn't
fancy her cheap dress, and at least she stood up to my sarcasm. Then I
remembered I still had the Lovelybelt stuff and I guess the meanness was
still working in me because I handed her a girdle and told her to go
behind the screen and get into it and she did, without getting flustered as
I'd expected, and since we'd gone that far I figured we might as well
shoot the beach scene to round it out, and that was that.
All this time I wasn't feeling anything particular in one way or the
other except every once in a while I'd get one of those faint dizzy flashes
and wonder if there was something wrong with my stomach or if I could
have been a bit careless with my chemicals.
Still, you know, I think the uneasiness was in me all the while.
I tossed her a card and pencil. "Write your name and address and
phone," I told her and made for the darkroom.
A little later she walked out. I didn't call any good-byes. I was irked
because she hadn't fussed around or seemed anxious about her poses, or
even thanked me, except for that one smile.
I finished developing the negatives, made some prints, glanced at them,
decided they weren't a great deal worse than Miss Leon. On an impulse
I slipped them in with the pix I was going to take on the rounds next
mormng.
By now I'd worked long enough so I was a bit fagged and nervous, but
I didn't dare waste enough money on liquor to help that. I wasn't very
hungry. I think I went to a cheap movie.
l didn't think of the Girl at all, except maybe to wonder faintly why 
FRITZ L EIBER ? 95
in my present womanless state I hadn't made a pass at her. She had
seemed to belong to a, well, distinctly more approachable social stratum
than Miss Leon. But then of course there were all sorts of arguable reasons
for my not doing that.
Next morning I made the rounds. My first step was Munsch's Brewery.
They were looking for a "Munsch Girl." Papa Munsch had a sort of
affection for me, though he razzed my photography. He had a good natural judgment about that, too. Fifty years ago he might have been one of
the shoestring boys who made Hollywood.
Right now he was out in the plant pursuing his favorite occupation.
He put down the beaded can, smacked his lips, gabbled something technical to someone about hops, wiped his fat hands on the big apron he was
wearing, and grabbed my thin stack of pix.
He was about halfway through, making noises with his tongue and
teeth, when he came to her. I kicked myself for even having stuck her in.
"That's her," he said. "The photography's not so hot, but that's the
girl."
It was all decided. I wondered now why Papa Munsch sensed what the
girl had right away, while I didn't. I think it was because I saw her first
in the flesh, if that's the right word.
At the time I j ust felt faint.
"Who is she?" he asked.
"One of my new models." I tried to make it casual.
"Bring her out tomorrow morning," he told me. "And your stuff. We'll
photograph her here. I want to show you.
"Here, don't look so sick," he added. "Have some beer."
Well I went away telling myself it was just a fluke, so that she'd probably blow it tomorrow with her inexperience, and so on.
Just the same, when I reverently llaid my next stack of pix on Mr. Fitch,
of Lovelybelt's rose-colored blotter, 1 had hers on top.
Mr. Fitch went through the motions of being an art critic. He leaned
over backward, squinted his eyes, waved his long fingers, and said,
"Hmmm. What do you think, Miss Willow? Here, in this light. Of course
the photograph doesn't show the bias cut. And perhaps we should use
the Lovelybelt Imp instead of the Angel. Still, the girl. ... Come over
here, Binns." More finger-waving. "I want a married man's reaction."
He couldn't hide the fact that he: was hooked.
Exactly the same thing happened at Buford's Pool and Playground,
except that Da Costa didn't need a married man's say-so.
"Hot stuff," he said, sucking his lips. "Oh, boy, you photographers!"
I hot-footed it back to the office and grabbed up the card I'd given to
her to put down her name and address.
It was blank.
I don't mind telling you that the next five minutes were about the worst 
96 (ffi@)
?J}.)JUI THE GIRL W rm THE HUNGRY EYES
I ever went through, in an ordinary way. When next morning rolled
around and I still hadn't got hold of her, I had to start stalling.
"She's sick," I told Papa Munsch over the phone.
"She's at a hospital?" he asked me.
"Nothing that serious," I told him.
"Get her out here then. What's a little headache?"
"Sorry, I can't."
Papa Munsch got suspicious. "You really got this girl?"
"Of course I have."
"Well, I don't know. I'd think it was some New York model, except I
recognized your lousy photography."
I laughed.
"Well look, you get her here tomorrow morning, you hear ?"
"I'll try."
"Try nothing. You get her out here."
He didn't know half of what I tried. I went around to all the model
and employment agencies. I did some slick detective work at the photographic and art studios. I used up some of my last dimes putting advertise··
ments in all three papers. I looked at high school yearbooks and at
employee photos in local house organs. I went to restaurants and drugstores, looking for waitresses, and to dime stores and department stores,
looking at clerks. I watched the crowds coming out of movie theaters. I
roamed the streets.
Evenings I spent quite a bit of time along Pick-up Row. Somehow that
seemed the right place.
The fifth afternoon I knew I was licked. Papa Munsch's deadline-he'd
given me several, but this was it-was due to run out at six o'clock. Mr.
Fitch had already canceled.
I was at the studio window, looking out at Ardleigh Park.
She walked in.
I'd gone over this moment so often in my mind that I had no trouble
putting on my act. Even the faint dizzy feeling didn't throw me off.
"Hello," I said, hardly looking at her.
"Hello," she said.
"Not discouraged yet?'
"No." It didn't sound uneasy or defiant. It was just a statement.
I snapped a look at my watch, and got up and said curtly, "Look here,
I'm going to give you a chance. There's a client of mine looking for a girl
your general type. If you do a real good job you may break into the
modeling business.
"We can see him this afternoon if we hurry," I said. I picked up my
stuff. "Come on. And next time, if you expect favors, don't forget to
leave your phone number."
"Uh, uh," she said, not moving.
"What do you mean?" I said. 
FRITZ LEIBER ? 97
"I'm not going to see any client of yours."
"The hell you aren't," I said. "You little nut, I'm giving you a break."
She shook her head slowly. "You're not fooling me, baby, you're not
fooling me at all. They want me." And she gave me the second smile.
At the time I thought she must have seen my newspaper ad. Now I'm
not so sure.
"And now I'll tell you how we're going to work," she went on. "You
aren't going to have my name or address or phone number. Nobody is.
And we're going to do all the pictures right here. Just you and me."
You can imagine the roar I ra1ised at that. I was everything-angry,
sarcastic, patiently explanatory, off my nut, threatening, pleading.
I would have slapped her face off, except it was photographic capital.
In the end all I could do was phone Papa Munsch and tell him her
conditions. I knew I didn't have a chance, but I had to take it.
He gave me a really angry bawling out, said "no" several times and
hung up.
It didn't faze her. "We'll start shooting at ten o'clock tomorrow," she
said.
It was just like her, using that corny line from the movie magazines.
About midnight Papa Munsch called me up.
"I don't know what insane asylum you're renting this girl from," he
said, "but I'll take her. Come around tomorrow morning and I'll try to
get it through your head just how I want the pictures. And I'm glad I got
you out of bed!"
After that it was a breeze. Even Mr. Fitch reconsidered and after taking
two days to tell me it was quite impossible, he accepted the conditions too.
Of course you're all under the spell of the Girl, so you can't understand
how much self-sacrifice it represented on Mr. Fitch's part when he agreed
to forgo supervising the photography of my model in the Lovelybelt Imp
or Vixen or whatever it was we finally used.
Next morning she turned up on time according to her schedule, and
we went to work. I'll say one thing for her, she never got tired and she
never kicked at the way I fussed over shots. I got along okay except I
still had the feeling of something being shoved away gently. Maybe you've
felt it just a little, looking at her picture.
When we finished I found out there were still more rules. It was about
the middle of the afternoon. I started down with her to get a sandwich
and coffee.
"Uh uh," she said, "I'm going down alone. And look, baby, if you ever
try to follow me, if you ever so much as stick your head out that window
when I go, you can hire yourself another model."
You can imagine how all this crazy stuff strained my temper-and my
imagination. I remember opening the window after she was gone-I
waited a few minutes first-and standing there getting some fresh air and
trying to figure out what could be back of it, whether she was hiding 
98 ?THE GIRL WITH THE HuNGRY EYES
from the police, or was somebody's ruined daughter, or maybe had got
the idea it was smart to be temperamental, or more likely Papa Munsch
was right and she was partly nuts.
But I had my pix to finish up.
Looking back it's amazing to think how fast her magic began to take
hold of the city after that. Remembering what came after I'm frightened
of what's happening to the whole country-and maybe the world. Yesterday I read something in Time about the Girl's picture turning up on
billboards in Egypt.
The rest of my story will help show you why I'm frightened in that big
general way. But I have a theory, too, that helps explain, though it's one
of those things that's beyond that "certain point." It's about the Girl. I'll
give it to you in a few words.
You know how modern advertising gets everybody's mind set in the same
direction, wanting the same things, imagining the same things. And you
know the psychologists aren't so skeptical of telepathy as they used to be.
Add up the two ideas. Suppose the identical desires of millions of people
focused on one telepathic person. Say a girl. Shaped her in their image.
Imagine her knowing the hiddenmost hungers of millions of men. Imagine her seeing deeper into those hungers than the people that had them,
seeing the hatred and the wish for death behind the lust. Imagine her
shaping herself in that complete imagine, keeping herself as aloof as marble. Yet imagine the hunger she might feel in answer to their hunger.
But that's getting a long way from the facts of my story. And some of
those facts are darn solid. Like money. We made money.
That was the funny thing I was going to tell you. I was afraid the Girl
was going to hold me up. She really had me over a barrel, you know.
But she didn't ask for anything but the regular rates. Later on I insisted
on pushing more money at her, a whole lot. But she always took it with
that same contemptuous look, as if she were going to toss it down the
first drain when she got outside.
Maybe she did.
At any rate, I had money. For the first time in months I had money
enough to get drunk, buy new clothes, take taxicabs. I could make a play
for any girl I wanted to. I only had to pick.
And so of course I had to go and pickBut first let me tell you about Papa Munsch.
Papa Munsch wasn't the first of the boys to try to meet my model but
I think he was the first to really go soft on her. I could watch the change
in his eyes as he looked at her pictures. They began to get sentimental,
reverent. Mama Munsch had been dead for two years.
He was smart about the way he planned it. He got me to drop some
information which told him when she came to work, and then one morning he came pounding up the stairs a few minutes before.
"I've got to see her, Dave," he told me. 
F RITZ LEIBER ? 99
I argued with him, I kidded him. I explained he didn't know just how
serious she was about her crazy ideas. J pointed out he was cutting both
our throats. I even amazed myself by bawling him out.
He didn't take any of it in his usual way. He just kept repeating, "But,
Dave, I've got to see her."
The street door slammed.
"That's her," I said, lowering my voice. "You've got to get out."
He wouldn't, so I shoved him in the darkroom. "And keep quiet,"
whispered. "I'll tell her I can't work today."
I knew he'd try to look at her and probably come busting in, but there
wasn't anything else I could do.
The footsteps came to the fourth floor. But she never showed at the
door. I got uneasy.
"Get that bum out of there!" she yelled suddenly from beyond the door.
Not very loud, but in her commonest voice.
"I'm going up to the next landing," she said, "and if that fat-bellied
bum doesn't march straight down to the street, he'll never get another
pix of me except spitting in his lousy beer:"
Papa Munsch came out of the darkroom. He was white. He didn't look
at me as he went out. He never looked at her pictures in front of me again.
That was Papa Munsch. Now it's me I'm telling about. I talked about
the subject with her, I hinted, eventually I made my pass.
She lifted my hand off her as if it were a damp rag.
"Nix, baby," she said. "This is working time."
"But afterward ... " I pressed.
"The rules still hold." And I got what I think was the fifth smile.
It's hard to believe, but she neve:r budged an inch from that crazy line.
I mustn't make a pass at her in the office, because our work was very
important and she loved it and there mustn't be any distractions. And I
couldn't see her anywhere else, because if I tried to, I'd never snap another
picture of her-and all this with more money coming in all the time and
me never so stupid as to think my photography had anything to do with it.
Of course I wouldn't have been human if I hadn't made more passes. But
they always got the wet-rag treatment and there weren't any more smiles.
I changed. I went sort of crazy and light-headed-only sometimes I felt
my head was going to burst. And I started to talk to her all the time.
About myself.
It was like being in a constant ddirium that never interfered with business. I didn't pay attention to the dizzy feeling. It seemed natural.
I'd walk around and for a moment the reflector would look like a sheet
of white-hot steel, or the shadows would seem like armies of moths, or
the camera would be a big black coal car. But the next instant they'd
come all right again.
I think sometimes I was scared to death of her. She'd seem the strangest,
horriblest person in the world. But other times ... 
1 0 0 m0il
MJ¥JI THE GiRL W ITH THE HUNGRY EYES
And I talked. It didn't matter what I was doing--lighting her, posing he
fussing with props, snapping my pix-or where she was-on the platforr
behind the screen, relaxing with a magazine-! kept up a steady gab.
I told her everything I knew about myself. I told her about my first gi1
I told her about my brother Bob's bicycle. I told her about running aw?
on a freight and the licking Pa gave me when I came home. I told her abo1
shipping to South America and the blue sky at night. I told her about Bett
I told her about my mother dying of cancer. I told her about being beatt
up in a fight in an alley behind a bar. I told her about Mildred. I told h
about the first picture I ever sold. I told her how Chicago looked from
sailboat. I told her about the longest drunk I was ever on. I told her abo1
Marsh-Mason. I told her about Gwen. I told her about how I met PaJ
Munsch. I told her about hunting her. I told her about how I felt now.
She never paid the slightest attention to what I said. I couldn't even tf
if she heard me.
It was when we were getting our first nibble from national advertise
that I decided to follow her when she went home.
Wait, I can place it better than that. Something you'll remember fro1
the out-of-town papers-those maybe-murders I mentioned. I think the1
were six.
I say "maybe" because the police could never be sure they weren't hea
attacks. But there's bound to be suspicion when heart attacks happen 1
people whose hearts have been okay, and always at night when they're alor
and away from home and there's a question of what they were doing.
The six deaths created one of those "mystery poisoner" scares. An
afterward there was a feeling that they hadn't really stopped, but we1
being continued in a less suspicious way.
That's one of the things that scares me now.
But at that time my only feeling was relief that I'd decided to follow he
I made her work until dark one afternoon. I didn't need any excuse
we were snowed under with orders. I waited until the street dm
slammed, then I ran down. I was wearing rubber-soled shoes. I'd slippf
on a dark coat she'd never seen me in, and a dark hat.
I stood in the doorway until I spotted her. She was walking by Ardleig
Park toward the heart of town. It was one of those warm fall nights.
followed her on the other side of the street. My idea for tonight was ju
to find out where she lived. That would give me a hold on her.
She stopped in front of a display window of Everly's department stor
standing back from the glow. She stood there looking in.
I remembered we'd done a big photograph of her for Everly's, to rna?
a flat model for a lingerie display. That was what she was looking at.
At that time it seemed all right to me that she should adore herself,
that was what she was doing.
When people passed she'd turn away a little or drift back farther int
the shadows. 
1 )'') 1,.-:(
'1).\l t FRITZ LEIBER .... 101
Then a man came by alone. I couldn't see his face very well, but he
looked middle-aged. He stopped and stood looking in the window.
She came out of the shadows and stepped up beside him.
How would you boys feel if you were looking at a poster of the Girl
and suddenly she was there beside you, her arm linked with yours?
This fellow's reaction showed pla in as day. A crazy dream had come
to life for him.
They talked for a moment. Then he waved a taxi to the curb. They got
in and drove off.
I got drunk that night. It was almost as if she'd known I was following
her and had picked that way to hurt me. Maybe she had. Maybe this was
the finish.
But the next morning she turned up at the usual time and I was back
in the delirium, only now with some new angles added.
That night when I followed her she picked a spot under a street lamp,
opposite one of the Munsch Girl billboards.
Now it frightens me to think of her lurking that way.
After about twenty minutes a convertible slowed down going past her,
backed up, swung in to the curb.
I was closer this time. I got a good look at the fellow's face. He was a
little younger, about my age.
Next morning the same face looked up at me from the front page of the
paper. The convertible had been found parked on a side street. He had been
in it. As in the other maybe-murders, the cause of death was uncertain.
All kinds of thoughts were spinning in my head that day, but there
were only two things I knew for sure. That I'd got the first real offer
from a national advertiser, and that I was going to take the Girl's arm
and walk down the stairs with her when we quit work.
She didn't seem surprised. "You know what you're doing?" she said.
"I know."
She smiled. "I was wondering when you'd get around to it."
I began to feel good. I was kissing everything good-bye, but I had my
arm around hers.
It was another of those warm fall evenings. We cut across into Ardleigh
Park. It was dark there, but all around the sky was a sallow pink from
the advertising signs.
We walked for a long time in the park. She didn't say anything and
she didn't look at me, but I could see her lips twitching and after a while
her hand tightened on my arm.
We stopped. We'd been walking across the grass. She dropped down
and pulled me after her. She put her hands on my shoulders. I was looking
down at her face. It was the faintest sallow pink from the glow in the
sky. The hungry eyes were dark smudges.
I was fumbling with her blouse. She took my hand away, not like she
had in the studio. "I don't want that," she said. 
1 0 2 ?
?J?JWI THE GIRL W ITH THE HuNGRY EYEs
First I'll tell you what I did afterward. Then I'll tell you why I did it.
Then I'll tell you what she said.
What I did was run away. I don't remember all of that because I was
dizzy, and the pink sky was swinging against the dark trees. But after a
while I staggered into the lights of the street. The next day I closed up
the studio. The telephone was ringing when I locked the door and there
were unopened letters on the floor. I never saw the Girl again in the flesh,
if that's the right word.
I did it because I didn't want to die. I didn't want the life drawn out
of me. There are vampires and vampires, and the ones that suck blood
aren't the worst. If it hadn't been for the warning of those dizzy flashes,
and Papa Munsch and the face in the morning paper, I'd have gone the
way the others did. But I realized what I was up against while there was
still time to tear myself away. I realized that wherever she came from,
whatever shaped her, she's the quintessence of the horror behind the
bright billboard. She's the smile that tricks you into throwing away your
money and your life. She's the eyes that lead you on and on, and then
show you death. She's the creature you give everything for and never really
get. She's the being that takes everything you've got and gives nothing in
return. When you yearn toward her face on the billboards, remember
that. She's the lure. She's the bait. She's the Girl.
And this is what she said, "I want you. I want your high spots. I want
everything that's made you happy and everything that's hurt you bad. I
want your first girl. I want that shiny bicycle. I want that licking. I want
that pinhole camera. I want Betty's legs. I want the blue sky filled with
stars. I want your mother's death. I want your blood on the cobblestones.
I want Mildred's mouth. I want the first picture you sold. I want the
lights of Chicago. I want the gin. I want Gwen's hands. I want your
wanting me. I want your life. Feed me, baby, feed me." 
jOHN CHEEVER
(Igi2-I982)
John Cheever was born in Quincy, Massachusetts, and got his early education at the Thayer Academy in South Braintree, Massachusetts. He was
expelled at the age of seventeen, which may account for the particular
view he has of the culture of conformity that shaped him. He is reported
to have begun writing at the age of ten or eleven.
Though he wrote novels, including The Wapshot Chronicle (1 957), The
Wapshot Scandal (1 964), and Bullet Park (1 969), he is considered a master of the short story. He received the Benjamin Franklin Short Story
Award in 1 954, an 0. Henry Award in 1 955, and an award from the
National Institute of Arts and Letters. He was a regular contributor of
short fiction to The New Yorker lor many years, and his collection, The
Short Stories of John Cheever (1 978) won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction
in 1979.
"Torch Song" provides an interesting comparison with Mary E. WilkinsFreeman's "Luella Miller. " Wilkins-Freeman's tale is set in a village, while
Cheever's takes place in New York City, urban to the core. And yet,
Luella Miller and sweet-voiced Joan Harris are sisters under the skin.
While Cheever's story has a psychological vampire at its center, there
is more to this tale. In it, Cheever displays an ear for suburban chit chat
and a keen understanding of people who flatter themselves that they are
leading lives of quiet desperation.. Cheever offers us a glimpse into the
lives of people who long ago accepted their own inability to disturb the
universe. 
TORCH SONG
'
After Jack Lorey had known Joan Harris in New York for a
few years, he began to think of her as the Widow. She always wore black,
and he was always given the feeling, by a curious disorder in her apartment, that the undertakers had just left. This impression did not stem
from malice on his part, for he was fond of Joan. They came from the
same city in Ohio and had reached New York at about the same time in
the middle thirties. They were the same age, and during their first summer
in the city they used to meet after work and drink Martinis in places
like the Brevoort and Charles', and have dinner and play checkers at
the Lafayette.
Joan went to a school for models when she settled in the city, but it
turned out that she photographed badly, so after spending six weeks learning how to walk with a book on her head she got a job as a hostess in
a Longchamps. For the rest of the summer she stood by the hatrack,
bathed in an intense pink light and the string music of heartbreak, swinging her mane of dark hair and her black skirt as she moved forward to
greet the customers. She was then a big, handsome girl with a wonderful
voice, and her face, her whole presence, always seemed infused with a
gentle and healthy pleasure at her surroundings, whatever they were. She
was innocently and incorrigibly convivial, and would get out of bed and
dress at three in the morning if someone called her and asked her to come
out for a drink, as Jack often did. In the fall, she got some kind of
freshman executive job in a department store. They saw less and less of
each other and then for quite a while stopped seeing each other altogether.
Jack was living with a girl he had met at a party, and it never occurred
to him to wonder what had become of Joan.
Jack's girl had some friends in Pennsylvania, and in the spring and
summer of his second year in town he often went there with her for
weekends. All of this-the shared apartment in the Village, the illicit relationship, the Friday-night train to a country house-was what he had
imagined life in New York to be, and he was intensely happy. He was
returning to New York with his girl one Sunday night on the Lehigh line.
It was one of those trains that move slowly across the face of New Jersey,
bringing back to the city hundreds of people, like the victims of an immense and strenuous picnic, whose faces are blazing and whose muscles
are lame. Jack and his girl, like most of the other passengers, were overburdened with vegetables and flowers. When the train stopped in Pennsylvania Station, they moved with the crowd along the platform, toward the
escalator. As they were passing the wide, lighted windows of the diner, 
'\
)
?2
joHN CHEEVER 105
Jack turned his head and saw Joan. It was the first time he had seen her
since Thanksgiving, or since Christmas. He couldn't remember.
Joan was with a man who had obviously passed out. His head was in
his arms on the table, and an overturned highball glass was near one of
his elbows. Joan was shaking his shoulders gently and speaking to him.
She seemed to be vaguely troublled, vaguely amused. The waiters had
cleared off all the other tables and were standing around Joan, waiting
for her to resurrect her escort. It troubled Jack to see in these straits a
girl who reminded him of the trees and the lawns of his home town, but
there was nothing he could do to help. Joan continued to shake the man's
shoulders, and the crowd pressed Jack past one after another of the diner's
windows, past the malodorous kitchen, and up the escalator.
He saw Joan, later that summer, when he was having dinner in a Village
restaurant. He was with a new girl, a Southerner. There were many Southern girls in the city that year. Jack and his belle had wandered into the
restaurant because it was convenient, but the food was terrible and the
place was lighted with candles. Halfway through dinner, Jack noticed
Joan on the other side of the room, and when he had finished eating, he
crossed the room and spoke to her. She was with a tall man who was
wearing a monocle. He stood, bowed stiffly from the waist, and said to
Jack, "We are very pleased to meet you." Then he excused himself and
headed for the toilet. "He's a count, he's a Swedish count," Joan said.
"He's on the radio, Friday afternoons at four-fifteen. Isn't it exciting?"
She seemed to be delighted with the count and the terrible restaurant.
Sometime the next winter, Jack moved from the Village to an apartment
in the East Thirties. He was crossing Park Avenue one cold morning on
his way to the office when he noticed, in the crowd, a woman he had
met a few times at Joan's apartment. He spoke to her and asked about
his friend. "Haven't you heard?" sne said. She pulled a long face. "Perhaps
I'd better tell you. Perhaps you can help." She and Jack had breakfast in
a drugstore on Madison Avenue and she unburdened herself of the story.
The count had a program called "The Song of the Fiords," or something
like that, and he sang Swedish folk songs. Everyone suspected him of
being a fake, but that didn't bother Joan. He had met her at a party and,
sensing a soft touch, had moved in with her the following night. About
a week later, he complained of pains in his back and said he must have
some morphine. Then he needed morphine all the time. If he didn't get
morphine, he was abusive and violent. Joan began to deal with those
doctors and druggists who peddle dope, and when they wouldn't supply
her, she went down to the bottom of the city. Her friends were afraid she
would be found some morning stuffed in a drain. She got pregnant. She
had an abortion. The count left her and moved to a flea bag near Times
Square, but she was so impressed by then with his helplessness, so afraid
that he would die without her, that she followed him there and shared
his room and continued to buy his narcotics. He abandoned her again, 
106 ?
?)l)¥JI ToRcH SoNG
and Joan waited a week for him to return before she went back to her
place and her friends in the Village.
It shocked Jack to think of the innocent girl from Ohio having lived
with a brutal dope addict and traded with criminals, and when he got to
his office that morning, he telephoned her and made a date for dinner
that night. He met her at Charles'. When she came into the bar, she
seemed as wholesome and calm as ever. Her voice was sweet, and reminded him of elms, of lawns, of those glass arrangements that used to
be hung from porch ceilings to tinkle in the summer wind. She told him
about the count. She spoke of him charitably and with no trace of bitterness, as if her voice, her disposition, were incapable of registering anything
beyond simple affection and pleasure. Her walk, when she moved ahead
of him toward their table, was light and graceful. She ate a large dinner
and talked enthusiastically about her job. They went to a movie and said
goodbye in front of her apartment house.
That winter, Jack met a girl he decided to marry. Their engagement
was announced in January and they planned to marry in July. In the
spring, he received, in his office mail, an invitation to cocktails at Joan's.
It was for a Saturday when his fiancee was going to Massachusetts to
visit her parents, and when the time came and he had nothing better to
do, he took a bus to the Village. Joan had the same apartment. It was a
walk-up. You rang the bell above the mailbox in the vestibule and were
answered with a death rattle in the lock. Joan lived on the third floor.
Her calling card was in a slot in the mailbox, and above her name was
written the name Hugh Bascomb.
Jack climbed the two flights of carpeted stairs, and when he reached
Joan's apartment, she was standing by the open door in a black dress.
After she greeted Jack, she took his arm and guided him across the room.
"I want you to meet Hugh, Jack," she said.
Hugh was big man with a red face and pale-blue eyes. His manner was
courtly and his eyes were inflamed with drink. Jack talked with him for
a little while and then went over to speak to someone he knew, who
was standing by the mantelpiece. He noticed then, for the first time, the
indescribable disorder of Joan's apartment. The books were in their
shelves and the furniture was reasonably good, but the place was all
wrong, somehow. It was as if things had been put in place without
thought or real interest, and for the first time, too, he had the impression
that there had been a death there recently.
As Jack moved around the room, he felt that he had met the ten or
twelve guests at other parties. There was a woman executive with a fancy
hat, a man who could imitate Roosevelt, a grim couple whose play was
in rehearsal, and a newspaperman who kept turning on the radio for news
of the Spanish Civil War. Jack drank Martinis and talked with the woman
in the fancy hat. He looked out of the window at the back yards and the 
JoHN C HFEVER ? 107
ailanthus trees and heard, in the distance, thunder exploding off the cliffs
of the Hudson.
Hugh Bascomb got very drunk. He began to spill liquor, as if drinking,
for him, were a kind of jolly slaughter and he enjoyed the bloodshed and
the mess. He spilled whiskey from a bottle. He spilled a drink on his shirt
and then tipped over someone else's drink. The party was not quiet, but
Hugh's hoarse voice began to dominate the others. He attacked a photographer who was sitting in a corner explaining camera techniques to a
homely woman. "What did you come to the party for if all you wanted
to do was to sit there and stare at your shoes?" Hugh shouted. "What
did you come for ? Why didn't you stay at home ?"
The photographer didn't know what to say. He was not staring at his
shoes. Joan moved lightly to Hugh's side. "Please don't get into a fight
now, darling," she said. "Not this afternoon."
"Shut up," he said. "Let me alone. Mind your own business." He lost
his balance, and in struggling to steady himself he tipped over a lamp.
"Oh, your lovely lamp, Joan," a woman sighed.
"Lamps!" Hugh roared. He threw his arms into the air and worked
them around his head as if he were bludgeoning himself. "Lamps. Glasses.
Cigarette boxes. Dishes. They're killing me. They're killing me, for Christ's
sake. Let's all go up to the mountains and hunt and fish and live like
men, for Christ's sake."
People were scattering as if a rain had begun to fall in the room. It
had, as a matter of fact, begun to rain outside. Someone offered Jack a
ride uptown, and he jumped at the chance. Joan stood at the door, saying
goodbye to her routed friends. Her voice remained soft, and her manner,
unlike that of those Christian women who in the face of disaster can
summon new and formidable sources of composure, seemed genuinely
simple. She appeared to be oblivious of the raging drunk at her back,
who was pacing up and down, grinding glass into the rug, and haranguing
one of the survivors of the party with a story of how he, Hugh, had once
gone without food for three weeks.
In July, Jack was married in an orchard in Duxbury, and he and his wife
went to West Chop for a few weeks. When they returned to town, their
apartment was cluttered with pres•?nts, including a dozen after-dinner coffee cups from Joan. His wife sent her the required note, but they did
nothing else.
Late in the summer, Joan telephoned Jack at his office and asked if he
wouldn't bring his wife to see her; she named an evening the following
week. He felt guilty about not having called her, and accepted the invitation. This made his wife angry. She was an ambitious girl who liked a
social life that offered rewards, and she went unwillingly to Joan's Village
apartment with him.
Written above Joan's name on the mailbox was the name Franz Denzel. 
1 0 8 ?
?1)})¥-JI To RcH S oNG
Jack and his wife climbed the stairs and were met by Joan at the open
door. They went into her apartment and found themselves among a group
of people for whom Jack, at least, was unable to find any bearings.
Franz Denzel was a middle-aged German. His face was pinched with
bitterness or illness. He greeted Jack and his wife with that elaborate and
clever politeness that is intended to make guests feel that they have come
too early or too late. He insisted sharply upon Jack's sitting in the chair
in which he hi nself had been sitting, and then went and sat on a radiator.
There were five other Germans sitting around the room, drinking coffee.
In a corner was another American couple, who looked uncomfortable.
Joan passed Jack and his wife small cups of coffee with whipped cream.
"These cups belonged to Franz's mother," she said. "Aren't they lovely?
They were the only things he took from Germany when he escaped from
the Nazis."
Franz turned to Jack and said, "Perhaps you will give us your opinion
on the American educational system. That is what we were discussing
when you arrived."
Before Jack could speak, one of the German guests opened an attack
on the American educational system. The other Germans joined in, and
went on from there to describe every vulgarity that had impressed them
in American life and to contrast German and American culture generally.
Where, they asked one another passionately, could you find in America
anything like the Mitropa dining cars, the Black Forest, the pictures in
Munich, the music in Bayreuth? Franz and his friends began speaking in
German. Neither Jack nor his wife nor Joan could understand German,
and the other American couple had not opened their mouths since they
were introduced. Joan went happily around the room, filling everyone's
cup with coffee, as if the music of a foreign language were enough to
make an evening for her.
Jack drank five cups of coffee. He was desperately uncomfortable. Joan
went into the kitchen while the Germans were laughing at their German
jokes, and he hoped she would return with some drinks, but when she
came back, it was with a tray of ice cream and mulberries.
"Isn't this pleasant?" Franz asked, speaking in English again.
Joan collected the coffee cups, and as she was about to take them back
to the kitchen, Franz stopped her.
"Isn't one of those cups chipped?"
"No, darling," Joan said. "I never let the maid touch them. I wash
them myself."
"What's that?" he asked, pointing at the rim of one of the cups.
"That's the cup that's always been chipped, darling. It was chipped
when you unpacked it. You noticed it then."
"These things were prefect when they arrived in this country," he said.
Joan went into the kitchen and he followed her.
Jack tried to make conversation with the Germans. From the kitchen 
there was the sound of a blow and a cry. Franz returned and began to
eat his mulberries greedily. Joan came back with her dish of ice cream.
Her voice was gentle. Her tears, if she had been crying, had dried as
quickly as the tears of a child. Jack and his wife finished their ice cream
and made their escape. The wasted and unnerving evening enraged Jack's
wife, and he supposed that he would never see Joan again.
Jack's wife got pregnant early in the fall, and she seized on all the
prerogatives of an expectant mother. She took long naps, ate canned
peaches in the middle of the night, and talked about the rudimentary
kidney. She chose to see only other couples who were expecting children,
and the parties that she and Jack gave were temperate. The baby, a boy,
was born in May, and Jack was very proud and happy. The first party
he and his wife went to after her convalescence was the wedding of a girl
whose family Jack had known in Ohio.
The wedding was at St. James's, and afterward there was a big reception
at the River Club. There was an orchestra dressed like Hungarians, and
a lot of champagne and Scotch. Toward the end of the afternoon, Jack
was walking down a dim corridor when he heard Joan's voice. "Please
don't, darling," she was saying. "You'll break my arm. Please don't, darling." She was being pressed against the wall by a man who seemed to
be twisting her arm. As soon as they saw Jack, the struggle stopped. All
three of them were intensely embarrassed. Joan's face was wet and she
made an effort to smile through her tears at Jack. He said hello and went
on without stopping. When he returned, she and the man had disappeared.
When Jack's son was less than two years old, his wife flew with the baby
to Nevada to get a divorce. Jack gave her the apartment and all its furnishings and took a room in a hotel near Grand Central. His wife got her
decree in due course, and the story was in the newspapers. Jack had a
telephone call from Joan a few days later.
"I'm awfully sorry to hear about your divorce, Jack," she said. "She
seemed like such a nice girl. But that wasn't what I called you about. I
want your help, and I wondered if you could come down to my place
tonight around six. It's something I don't want to talk about over the
phone."
He went obediently to the Village that night and climbed the stairs.
Her apartment was a mess. The pictures and the curtains were down and
the books were in boxes. "You moving, Joan?" he asked.
"That's what I wanted to see you about, Jack. First, I'll give you a
drink." She made two Old-Fashioneds. "I'm being evicted, Jack," she said.
"I'm being evicted because I'm an immoral woman. The couple who have
the apartment downstairs-they're charming people, I've always thoughthave told the real-estate agent that I'm a drunk and a prostitute and all
kinds of things. Isn't that fantastic? This real-estate agent has always been
so nice to me that I didn't think he'd believe them, but he's canceled my 
11 0
lease, and if I make any trouble, he's threatened to take the matter up
with the store, and I don't want to lose my job. This nice real-estate agent
won't even talk with me any more. When I go over to the office, the
receptionist leers at me as if I were some kind of dreadful woman. Of
course, there have been a lot of men here and we sometimes are noisy,
but I can't be expected to go to bed at ten every night. Can I? Well, the
agent who manages this building has apparently told all the other agents
in the neighborhood that I'm an immoral and drunken woman, and none
of them will give me an apartment. I went in to talk with one man-he
seemed to be such a nice old gentleman-and he made me an indecent
proposal. Isn't it fantastic? I have to be out of here on Thursday and I'm
literally being turned out into the street."
Joan seemed as serene and innocent as ever while she described this
scourge of agents and neighbors. Jack listened carefully for some sign of
indignation or bitterness or even urgency in her recital, but there was
none. He was reminded of a torch song, of one of those forlorn and
touching ballads that had been sung neither for him nor for her but for
their older brothers and sisters by Marion Harris. Joan seemed to be
singing her wrongs.
"They've made my life miserable," she went on quietly. "If I keep the
radio on after ten o'clock, they telephone the agent in the morning and
tell him I had some kind of orgy here. One night when Philip-! don't
think you've met Philip; he's in the Royal Air Force; he's gone back to
England-one night when Philip and some other people were here, they
called the police. The police came bursting in the door and talked to me
as if I were I don't know what and then looked in the bedroom. If they
think there's a man up here after midnight, they call me on the telephone
and say all kinds of disgusting things. Of course, I can put my furniture
into storage and go to a hotel, I guess. I guess a hotel will take a woman
with my kind of reputation, but I thought perhaps you might know of
an apartment. I thought-"
It angered Jack to think of this big, splendid girl's being persecuted by
her neighbors, and he said he would do what he could. He asked her to
have dinner with him, but she said she was busy.
Having nothing better to do, Jack decided to walk uptown to his hotel.
It was a hot night. The sky was overcast. On his way, he saw a parade
in a dark side street of Broadway near Madison Square. All the buildings
in the neighborhood were dark. It was so dark that he could not see the
placards the marchers carried until he came to a street light. Their signs
urged the entry of the United States into the war, and each platoon represented a nation that had been subjugated by the Axis powers. They
marched up Broadway, as he watched, to no music, to no sound but their
own steps on the rough cobbles. It was for the most part an army of
elderly men and women-Poles, Norwegians, Danes, Jews, Chinese. A few
idle people like himself lined the sidewalks, and the marchers passed be-
JOHN CHEEVER ? 111
tween them with all the self-consciousness of enemy prisoners. There were
children among them dressed in the costumes in which they had, for the
newsreels, presented the Mayor with a package of tea, a petition, a protest, a constitution, a check, or a pair of tickets. They hobbled through
the darkness of the loft neighborhood like a mortified and destroyed people, toward Greeley Square.
In the morning, Jack put the problem of finding an apartment for Joan
up to his secretary. She started phoning real estate agents, and by afternoon she had found a couple of available apartments in the West Twenties. Joan called Jack the next day to say that she had taken one of the
apartments and to thank him.
Jack didn't see Joan again until the following summer. It was a Sunday
evening; he had left a cocktail party in a Washington Square apartment
and had decided to walk a few blocks up Fifth Avenue before he took a
bus. As he was passing the Brevoort, Joan called to him. She was with a
man at one of the tables on the sidewalk. She looked cool and fresh, and
the man appeared to be respectable. His name, it turned out, was Pete
Bristol. He invited Jack to sit down and join in a celebration. Germany
had invaded Russia that weekend, and Joan and Pete were drinking champagne to celebrate Russia's changed position in the war. The three of
them drank champagne until it got dark. They had dinner and drank
champagne with their dinner. They drank more champagne afterward and
then went over to the Lafayette and then to two or three other places.
Joan had always been tireless in her gentle way. She hated to see the night
end, and it was after three o'clock when Jack stumbled into his apartment.
The following morning he woke up haggard and sick, and with no recollection of the last hour or so of the previous evening. His suit was soiled and
he had lost his hat. He didn't get to his office until eleven. Joan had already
called him twice, and she called him again soon after he got in. There was
no hoarseness at all in her voice. She said that she had to see him, and he
agreed to meet her for lunch in a seafood restaurant in the Fifties.
He was standing at the bar when she breezed in, looking as though she
had taken no part in that calamiltous night. The advice she wanted concerned selling her jewelry. Her grandmother had left her some jewelry,
and she wanted to raise money on it but didn't know where to go. She
took some rings and bracelets out of her purse and showed them to Jack.
He said that he didn't know anything about jewelry but that he could
lend her some money. "Oh, I couldn't borrow money from you, Jack,"
she said. "You see, I want to get the money for Pete. I want to help him.
He wants to open an advertising agency, and he needs quite a lot to begin
with." Jack didn't press her to accept his offer of a loan after that, and
the project wasn't mentioned aga in during lunch.
He next heard about Joan from a young doctor who was a friend of
theirs. "Have you seen Joan recently?" the doctor asked Jack one evening
when they were having dinner together. He said no. "I gave her a checkup 
1 1 2 ?
\\).!J.l£1! ToRCH SONG
last week," the doctor said, "and while she's been through enough to kill
the average mortal-and you'll never know what she's been through-she
still has the constitution of a virtuous and healthy woman. Did you hear
about the last one? She sold her jewelry to put him into some kind of
business, and as soon as he got the money, he left her for another girl,
who had a car-a convertible."
Jack was drafted into the Army in the spring of 1 942. He was kept at
Fort Dix for nearly a month, and during this time he came to New York
in the evening whenever he could get permission. Those nights had for
him the intense keenness of a reprieve, a sensation that was heightened
by the fact that on the train in from Trenton women would often press
upon him dog-eared copies of Life and half-eaten boxes of candy, as
though the brown clothes he wore were surely cerements. He telephoned
Joan from Pennsylvania Station one night. "Come right over, Jack," she
said. "Come right over. I want you to met Ralph."
She was living in that place in the West Twenties that Jack had found
for her. The neighborhood was a slum. Ash cans stood in front of her
house, and an old woman was there picking out bits of refuse and garbage
and stuffing them into a perambulator. The house in which Joan's apartment was located was shabby, but the apartment itself seemed familiar.
The furniture was the same. Joan was the same big, easygoing girl. "I'm
so glad you called me," she said. "It's so good to see you. I'll make you
a drink. I was having one myself. Ralph ought to be here by now. He
promised to take me to dinner." Jack offered to take her to Cavanagh's,
but she said that Ralph might come while she was out. "If he doesn't come
by nine, I'm going to make myself a sandwich. I'm not really hungry."
Jack talked about the Army. She talked about the store. She had been
working in the same place for-how long was it? He didn't know. He had
never seen her at her desk and he couldn't imagine what she did. "I'm
terribly sorry Ralph isn't here," she said. "I'm sure you'd like him. He's not
a young man. He's a heart specialist who loves to play the viola." She turned
on some lights, for the summer sky had got dark. "He has this dreadful wife
on Riverside Drive and four ungrateful children. He-"
The noise of an air-raid siren, lugubrious and seeming to spring from
pain, as if all the misery and indecision in the city had been given a voice,
cut her off. Other sirens, in distant neighborhoods, sounded, until the
dark air was full of their noise. "Let me fix you another drink before I
have to turn out the lights," Joan said, and took his glass. She brought
the drink back to him and snapped off the lights. They went to the
windows, and, as children watch a thunderstorm, they watched the city
darken. All the lights nearby went out but one. Air-raid wardens had
begun to sound their whistles in the street. From a distant yard came a
hoarse shriek of anger. "Put our your lights, you Fascists!" a woman
screamed. "Put out your lights, you Nazi Fascist Germans. Turn out your 
JOHN C HEEVER ? 113
lights. Turn out your lights." The last light went off. They went away
from the window and sat in the lightless room.
In the darkness, Joan began to talk about her departed lovers, and from
what she said Jack gathered that they had all had a hard time. Nils, the
suspect count, was dead. Hugh Bascomb, the drunk, had joined the Merchant
Marine and was missing in the North Atlantic. Franz, the German, had taken
poison the night the Nazis bombed Warsaw. "We listened to the news on
the radio," Joan said, "and then he went back to his hotel and took poison.
The maid found him dead in the bathroom the next morning." When Jack
asked her about the one who was going to open an advertising agency, she
seemed at first to have forgotten him. "Oh, Pete," she said after a pause.
"Well, he was always very sick, you know. He was supposed to go to
Saranac, but he kept putting it off and putting it off and-" She stopped
talking when she heard steps on the stairs, hoping, he supposed, that it was
Ralph, but whoever it was turned at the landing and continued to the top
of the house. "I wish Ralph would come," she said, with a sigh. "I want
you to meet him." Jack asked her again to go out, but she refused, and
when the all-clear sounded, he said goodbye.
Jack was shipped from Dix to an infantry training camp in the Carolinas and from there to an infantry division stationed in Georgia. He had
been in Georgia three months when he married a girl from the Augusta
boarding-house aristocracy. A year or so later, he crossed the continent
in a day coach and thought sententiously that the last he might see of the
country he loved was the desert towns like Barstow, that the last he might
hear of it was the ringing of the trolleys on the Bay Bridge. He was sent
into the Pacific and returned to the United States twenty months later,
uninjured and apparently unchanged. As soon as he received his furlough,
he went to Augusta. He presented his wife with the souvenirs he had
brought from the islands, quarreled violently with her and all her family,
and, after making arrangements for her to get an Arkansas divorce, left
for New York.
Jack was discharged from the Army at a camp in the East a few months
later. He took a vacation and then went back to the job he had left in
1 942. He seemed to have picked up his life at approximately the moment
when it had been interrupted by the war. In time, everything came to
look and feel the same. He saw most of his old friends. Only two of the
men he knew had been killed in the war. He didn't call Joan, but he met
her one winter afternoon on a crosstown bus.
Her fresh face, her black clothes, and her soft voice instantly destroyed
the sense-if he had ever had such a sense-that anything had changed or
intervened since their last meeting, three or four years ago. She asked him
up for cocktails and he went to her apartment the next Saturday afternoon.
Her room and her guests reminded him of the parties she had given when
she had first come to New York. There was a woman with a fancy hat, an
elderly doctor, and a man who stayed close to the radio, listening for news 
1 1 4 @@)
\i).!)jDI ToRCH SoNG
from the Balkans. Jack wondered which of the men belonged to Joan and
decided on an Englishman who kept coughing into a handkerchief that he
pulled out of his sleeve. Jack was right. "Isn't Stephen brilliant?" Joan asked
him a little later, when they were alone in a corner. "He knows more about
the Polynesians than anyone else in the world."
Jack had returned not only to his old job but to his old salary. Since
living costs had doubled and since he was paying alimony to two wives,
he had to draw on his savings. He took another job, which promised
more money, but it didn't last long and he found himself out of work.
This didn't bother him at all. He still had money in the bank, and anyhow
it was easy to borrow from friends. His indifference was the consequence
not of lassitude or despair but rather of an excess of hope. He had the
feeling that he had only recently come to New York from Ohio. The sense
that he was very young and that the best years of his life still lay before
him was an illusion that he could not seem to escape. There was all the
time in the world. He was living in hotels then, moving from one to
another every five days.
In the spring, Jack moved to a furnished room in the badlands west of
Central Park. He was running out of money. Then, when he began to
feel that a job was a desperate necessity, he got sick. At first, he seemed
to have only a bad cold, but he was unable to shake it and he began to
run a fever and to cough blood. The fever kept him drowsy most of the
time, but he roused himself occasionally and went out to a cafeteria for
a meal. He felt sure that none of his friends knew where he was, and he
was glad of this. He hadn't counted on Joan.
Late one morning, he heard her speaking in the hall with his landlady.
A few moments later, she knocked on his door. He was lying on the bed
in a pair of pants and a soiled pajama top, and he didn't answer. She
knocked again and walked in. "I've been looking everywhere for you,
Jack," she said. She spoke softly. "When I found out that you were in a
place like this I thought you must be broke or sick. I stopped at the bank
and got some money, in case you're broke. I've brought you some Scotch.
I thought a little drink wouldn't do you any harm. Want a little drink?"
Joan's dress was black. Her voice was low and serene. She sat in a
chair beside his bed as if she had been coming there every day to nurse
him. Her features had coarsened, he thought, but there were still very few
lines in her face. She was heavier. She was nearly fat. She was wearing
black cotton gloves. She got two glasses and poured Scotch into them.
He drank his whiskey greedily. "I didn't get to bed until three last night,"
she said. Her voice had once before reminded him of a gentle and despairing song, but now, perhaps because he was sick, her mildness, the mourning she wore, her stealthy grace, made him uneasy. "It was one of those
nights," she said. "We went to the theatre. Afterward, someone asked us
up to his place. I don't know who he was. It was one of those places.
They're so strange. There were some meat-eating plants and a collection 
of Chinese snuff bottles. Why do people collect Chinese snuff bottles? We
all autographed a lampshade, as I remember, but I can't remember much ."
Jack tried to sit up in bed, as if there were some need to defend himself,
and then fell back again, agains1t the pillows. "How did you find rne,
Joan?" he asked.
"It was simple," she said. "I called that hotel. The one you were staying
in. They gave me this address. My secretary got the telephone number.
Have another little drink."
"You know, you've never come to a place of mine before-never," he
said. "Why did you come now?"
"Why did I come, darling?" she asked. "What a question! I've known
you for thirty years. You're the oldest friend I have in New York. Remember that night in the Village when it snowed and we stayed up until
morning and drank whiskey sours for breakfast? That doesn't seem like
twelve years ago. And that night--"
"I don't like to have you see me in a place like this," he said earnestly.
He touched his face and felt his beard.
"And all the people who used to imitate Roosevelt," she said, as if she
had not heard him, as if she were deaf. "And that place on Staten Island
where we all used to go for dinner when Henry had a car. Poor Henry.
He bought a place in Connecticut and went out there by himself one
weekend. He fell asleep with a lighted cigarette and the house, the barn,
everything burned. Ethel took the children out to California." She poured
more Scotch into his glass and handed it to him. She lighted a cigarette
and put it between his lips. The intimacy of this gesture, which made
it seem not only as if he were deathly ill but as if he were her lover,
troubled him.
"As soon as I'm better," he said, "I'll take a room at a good hotel. I'll
call you then. It was nice of you to come."
"Oh, don't be ashamed of this room, Jack," she said. "Rooms never
bother me. It doesn't seem to matter to me where I am. Stanley had a
filthy room in Chelsea. At least, other people told me it was filthy. I never
noticed it. Rats used to eat the food I brought him. He used to have to
hang the food from the ceiling, from the light chain."
"I'll call you as soon as I'm better," Jack said. "I think I can sleep now
if I'm left alone. I seem to need a lot of sleep."
"You really are sick, darling," she said. "You must have a fever." She
sat on the edge of his bed and put a hand on his forehead.
"How is that Englishman, Joan?" he asked. "Do you still see him?"
"What Englishman?" she said.
"You know. I met him at your house. He kept a handkerchief up his
sleeve. He coughed all the time. You know the one I mean."
"You must be thinking of someone else," she said. "I haven't had an
Englishman at my place since the war. Of course, I can't remember everyone." She turned and, taking one of his hands, linked her fingers in his. 
1 1 6
"He's dead, isn't he ?" Jack said. "That Englishman's dead." He pushed
her off the bed, and got up himself. "Get out," he said.
"You're sick, darling," she said. "I can't leave you alone here."
"Get out," he said again, and when she didn't move, he shouted, "What
kind of an obscenity are you that you can smell sickness and death the
way you do?"
"You poor darling."
"Does it make you feel young to watch the dying?" he shouted. "Is
that the lewdness that keeps you young? Is that why you dress like a
crow? Oh, I know there's nothing I can say that will hurt you. I know
there's nothing filthy or corrupt or depraved or brutish or base that the
others haven't tried, but this time you're wrong. I'm not ready. My life
isn't ending. My life's beginning. There are wonderful years ahead of me.
There are, there are wonderful, wonderful, wonderful years ahead of me,
and when they're over, when it's time, then I'll call you. Then, as an old
friend, I'll call you and give you whatever dirty pleasure you take in
watching the dying, but until then, you and your ugly and misshapen
forms will leave me alone."
She finished her drink and looked at her watch. "I guess I'd better show
up at the office," she said. "I'll see you later. I'll come back tonight.
You'll feel better then, you poor darling." She closed the door after her,
and he heard her light step on the stairs.
Jack emptied the whiskey bottle into the sink. He began to dress. He
stuffed his dirty clothes into a bag. He was trembling and crying with
sickness and fear. He could see the blue sky from his window, and in his
fear it seemed miraculous that the sky should be blue, that the white
clouds should remind him of snow, that from the sidewalk he could hear
the shrill voices of children shrieking, "I'm the king of the mountain, I'm
the king of the mountain, I'm the king of the mountain." He emptied the
ashtray containing his nail parings and cigarette butts into the toilet, and
swept the floor with a shirt, so that there would be no trace of his life,
of his body, when that lewd and searching shape of death came there to
find him in the evening. 
jOYCE CAROL OATES
(b. 1938)
Born in Lockport, New York, Joyce Carol Oates studied at Syracuse
University and the University of Wisconsin. Oates, a highly prolific writer
known especially for her themes of violence and evil in modern society,
has received numerous 0. Henry awards for her short stories. She has
described her vision as "of a highly complex America populated with
presumably ordinary families who experience common yet intense emotions and relationships and who (requently encounter violence."
Oates, having previously taught at the University of Detroit from 1 961
to 1 967 and the University of Windsor, Ontario, Canada, from 1 967 to
1 978, is currently the Roger S. Berlind Distinguished Professor of the
Humanities at Princeton University. Her first collection of short stories,
By the North Gate, was published in 1 963 and her first novel, With
Shuddering Fall, in 1 964. Her other novels include A Garden of Earthly
Delights (1 967), Expensive People (1 968), Do With Me What You Will
(1 9 73), and Them (1 969), for which she won the National Book Award
in 1970. She has also published under the pseudonym Rosamond Smith
(Lives of the Twins {1 987] and Snake Eyes [1 992]). Oates has recently
explored the horror genre with Haunted: Tales of the Grotesque (1 994)
and Zombie (1 995).
Bellefleur includes in its intricate narrative line an ongoing dialogue
about the existence or non-existence of God. In this excerpt, Oates exploits the sensuality implicit in the vampire's embrace. Norst, the vampire
count, has all the romantic, fear-inspiring characteristics of the dynamic,
dark, and handsome stranger whose "voice was liquid and sensuous ... ,"
who spoke of "rapture" and o( "passion. " Above all, what our heroine
Veronica finds exciting about Norst is the impossibility of knowing him
truly.
Eros and lassitude, death and dreams, and love-in Veronica and Norst
we get a distillation of all the hints about sex and passion that are the
usually-not-acknowledged aura of the vampire in fiction and film.
Bellefleur gives us one hot, meaty, sweaty, and erotic paroxysm of love
a(ter another. 
Excerpt from
BELLEFLEUR
'
Because of a vow she had made as a young woman in her
twenties, many years ago, after the second, or possibly the third, of her
fiances died ( and one of the fiances was a handsome thirty-year-old naval
officer whose father owned a string of textile mills in the Mohawk Valley)
great-aunt Veronica never emerged from her suite of rooms before sunset,
and never wore anything but black. "Anyone as unhappy as I should hide
away from the sun," she said. It was thought that she had imagined
herself a beauty at one time-and perhaps she had been a beauty-and
now she was in mourning not only for the two or three men who might
have saved her from a perpetual virginity, but for her own youthful self:
for the girlhood that must have seemed at one time inviolable, but which
gradually eroded until nothing remained of it but the stubborn chaste
irrelevant vow she had made, evidently before witnesses: "Anyone as unhappy as I should remain hidden away from people, so as not to upset
them," she said boldly. "Ah, I am accursed!"
Because of the vow Germaine rarely saw her great-aunt, and then only
in the winter months when the sun set early and Germaine's bedtime
wasn't until well after dark. The surprise of great-aunt Veronica was her
ordinariness: if the children hadn't known of her unhappy loves and her
curious penitential vows they would have thought her far less interesting
than their grandparents, and certainly far less interesting than their temperamental great-grandmother Elvira (shortly to become, at the age of
1 01, a bride again). Great-aunt Veronica was a plump, full-hipped and
full-breasted woman of moderate height, with a placid sheep's face, smallish hazel eyes with innumerable blue tucks and pleats about them, a
mouth that might have been charming except for its complacent set, and
a fairly smooth, unlined skin that varied extremely in tone: sometimes it
was quite pale, at other times mottled and flushed, especially about the
cheeks, and at other times, still, it was ruddy, coarse, and heated, almost
brick-red, as if she had been exercising violently in the sun. (Though of
course she never exercised. It seemed to tire the poor woman even to
walk downstairs, which she did with an air of listlessness that not even
the promise of excellent claret and excellent food could dispel.)
Absolutely unexceptional were her pastimes: she did needlepoint, like
the other old women, but would never have had the stamina or the imagination to create works of art like aunt Matilde; she played gin rummy
from time to time, for modest stakes; she gossiped about relatives and 
joYcE CAROL O ATES ? 1 1 9
neighbors, usually with an air of languid incredulity. She admired good
china but had never built up a collection of her own. She could not tolerate
anything but the finest linen against her skin (or so she liked to say), and of
course she abhorred machine-made things, most of all machine-made lace.
(All the Bellefleur women, even Leah, abhorred machine-made lace, no matter
that the family had recently acquired a lace-manufacturing factory on the
Alder River.) Her manners were mincing: she was really too much: sitting
primly at the dining room table, night after night, sipping daintily at her
wine, drinking a spoonful or two of soup, making a show of playing with
her food as if the very notion of an appetite were abhorrent. (Indeed, it
was a family joke of long standing that great-aunt Veronica gorged herself
in her room, before coming downstairs for dinner, in order to preserve
the myth of her girlish fastidiousness, decades after the myth had ceased
to have any meaning-or anyone who might care to believe in it.) That
Veronica had a dainty appetite was bluntly belied by her full, comfortable
figure, and the suggestion of a second chin, and her obvious air of superb
health. For a woman of her age--! people were always remarking, in
wonderment. Though no one knew exactly how old she was. Bromwell
had once calculated that she must be much older than grandmother Cornelia, which would have made her more than seventy, but everyone
laughed him out of the room-one of the few instances in which the child
was demonstrably mistaken. For great-aunt Veronica looked, even at her
most torpid, no more than fifty; at her freshest she might have been as
young as forty. Her small undistinguished eyes sometimes shone with an
inexplicable emotion that might have been a pleasure in her own enigmatic being.
Upon occasion she wore open-necked gowns, which exposed her pale,
rather lardish skin, and the beautiful dark-heart-shaped stone she wore
about her neck on a thin gold chain. Asked about the stone she always
gazed down upon it sorrowfully, and touched it, and said after a long
painful moment that it was a bloodstone-a gift from the first man she
had ever loved-the only man (she saw this now, so many decades after)
she had ever loved. A deep green stone, flecked with red jasper, glowing
and fading with variations in light, pulling heavily on the thin chain: a
stone heart the size of a child's heart. Is it beautiful, do you think it's
beautiful? she would ask, frowning, peering down at it so that her small
pudgy chin creased against her chest. She couldn't, she declared, j udge
any longer, herself. For it had been so many, many years since Count
Ragnar Norst had given her the bloodstone.
But of course it was beautiful, people said. If one liked bloodstones.
Norst introduced himself to Veronica Bellefleur at a charity ball in Manhattan, attended, it was said, by many persons of questionable background. Though Veronica, then a comely young woman of twenty-four
who wore her red-blond hair braided and wound about her head like a 
120
crown, and who distinguished herself by her high tinkling spontaneous
laughter, had, of course, a chaperone, and would not ordinarily have
countenanced a stranger's approach-let alone a stranger's daring in actually taking her hand and raising it to his lips!-there was from the very
first something so peremptory and at the same time so artless about his
manner that she could not assert herself against it. In handsome though
rather dated formal attire, with a very dark goatee and gleaming dark
curls on either side of his forehead, Count Ragnar Norst identified himself
ambiguously as the youngest son in a family of merchants who owned a
shipping line that spanned the globe, doing trade in New Guinea and
Patagonia and the Ivory Coast, and as a diplomatic attache whose embassy was, of course, in Washington, and as a "poet-adventurer" whose
only desire was to live each day to the fullest. Veronica's confused impression of Norst upon that occasion was a positive but troubled one-he
was attractive, but how intensely, how queerly, he had smiled at her! And
with what unwelcome intimacy he had kissed her hand, as if they were
old, intimate friends ....
Yet she dreamt of him almost at once. So that when he reappeared in
her life some weeks later, at a crowded reception at the home of Senator
Payne, not far from Bellefleur Manor, she greeted him with an unthinking
vivacity-actually held her hand out to him, as if they were old friends.
It was not until he seized the hand and raised it to his warm lips and
bowed over it that Veronica realized the audacity of her behavior, but by
then it was too late, for Norst was chattering to her about any number
of things-the weather, the beautiful mountain scenery, the '"rustic" lakeside cottage he had rented for the summer at Lake Ayernus (about twelve
miles south of Lake Noir), his hopes for seeing her as frequently as possible. Veronica laughed her high scandalized laugh, and blushed, but Norst
took no heed: he thought her, in his own words, "dreadfully charming."
And so very American.
It soon came about that Norst was visiting Veronica at the castle, driving over for luncheon or high tea in his extraordinary black car-a Lancia
Lambda, it was, a saloon model that stood high off the ground on
wooden-spoked wheels, comfortably roomy enough so that Veronica's
wide-brimmed hats were not in the slightest disturbed as she climbed in.
He drove her along the Nautauga River, and down through the picturesque rolling countryside to Lake Avernus, which, already in those days,
was beginning to be known as a resort area for well-to-do Manhattanites
who hadn't the interest or the wealth to acquire a genuine Chautauqua
camp of the sort Raphael Bellefleur had built on the northern shore of
Lake Noir. On those long leisurely drives-which poor Veronica was to
remember the rest of her life-the couple talked of innumerable casual
things, laughing frequently (for surely, from the start, they were half in
love), and though Norst questioned Veronica closely about her life, her
daily life, as if every detail about her delighted him, he was conspicuously 
jOYCE CAROL O ATES ? 121
evasive in speaking of his own ]life: he had "duties" in regard to his
family's shipping line which called him to New York often, he had "duties" in regard to the Swedish Embassy in Washington which called him
there, often, and the rest of the time, well, the rest of the time was given
over to ... to his obligations to himself.
"For we have a grave responsibility, do we not, my dear Miss
Bellefleur," he would say, squeezing her hand in excitement, "a responsibility entrusted to us at birth: the need, the command to fulfill ourselves,
to develop our souls to their utmost? For this we need not only time and
cunning, but courage, even auda,:ity ... and the sympathy of kindred
souls."
Veronica was capable of intelligent skepticism in regard to innumerable
domestic matters (dressmaker's and haberdashers' promises, for instance),
and as a child of thirteen she had insolently repudiated the "God" of
Unitarianism (for Veronica's branch of the family was solemnly experimenting with forms of Christianity they considered rational, since the
irrational forms were too embarrassing altogether); she was not a stupid
young woman; and yet, in Norst's charismatic presence, she seemed to
lose all her powers of judgment, and allowed his words to wash over
her. ... His voice was liquid and sensuous, the first genuinely charming,
even seductive, voice the unfortunate young woman had ever experienced.
Ah, it hardly mattered what he said! It hardly mattered: gossip about
mutual acquaintances at Lake Avernus, gossip about state and federal
politics, praise for the Bellefleur estate and farm, fulsome flattery directed
toward Veronica herself (who, in the flush of giddiness attending her
"love" for the count, was undeniably beautiful, and not at all innocent
of the effect of her cruel wasp-waisted corsets on the snug-fitting silk
gowns she wore). Veronica gazed upon Norst with a girlish fascination
she did not even try to hide, and murmured in agreement, yes, yes, whatever he said, it sounded so utterly plausible.
It was a most unorthodox courtship. Norst would disappear suddenly,
leaving behind only a few scribbled words of apology (but never of explanation) with a manservant; and then he would reappear, a day or twelve
days later, never doubting but that Veronica would see him-as if she
hadn't innumerable suitors who treated her more considerately. As if she
hadn't, Veronica's parents and brother chided her, any pride. But there
was Ragnar Norst in his aristocratic car, which gleamed like a hearse, and
gave off a scent (which in time became quite sweet, in Veronica's opinion)
of wax polish, leather, finely-veneered wood, and something mustily damp,
like a bog made rich by centuries of decay. At all times he wore impeccably
formal attire-frock coats, handsome silk cravats, dazzling-white cuffs with
pearl, gold, onyx, and bloodstone cuff links, starched collars, plissed
shirts-and his pomaded hair with its twin curls was always perfect. Perhaps his skin was too swarthy, and his black eyes too black, and his mood
too unpredictable (for if, one day, he was ebullient, gay, chattersome, and 
1 22 ?
?J:)fJI BELLEFLEUR
exhilarated, the next day he might be apathetic, or irritable, or melancholy, or so serious in his talk to Veronica of "the need to fulfill one's
destiny" that the young woman turned aside in distress) ... and in any
case, as the Bellefleurs were beginning to say, more and more emphatically, there was something not altogether clear about him. Were the
Norsts, indeed, an "ancient" Swedish family? Did they own a shipping
line? But which shipping line? Was a Norst associated with the Swedish
Embassy under his own name, or under an incognito? Was "Norst'' itself
an incognito? It is quite possible, Veronica's brother Aaron said, even
granting the man (which I don't) his identity, that he is involved in espionage of some sort. . . . It hasn't been our habit, after all, to trust
foreigners.
Veronica tearfully agreed; yet, once in Norst's presence, she forgot everything. He was so manly. He could entertain her for hours with Swedish
folksongs played on a curious little instrument that resembled a zither,
and produced a keening and yet lulling, almost soporific, sound, a "music"
so intimate that it played along her nerves and pulses, and left her quite
drained. He told her of his many travels-to Patagonia, to the African
interior, to Egypt, Mesopotamia, Jordan, India, New Guinea, Styria, the
land of Ganz-and began to intimate, more and more explicitly, that she
would soon accompany him, if she wished. And then he addressed her as
no other man had ever addressed her, seizing her limp hand and raising
it to his lips, kissing it passionately: murmuring shamelessly of "love" and
"kindred souls" and "mutual destiny" and the need for lovers to "surrender" themselves completely to one another. He called her "dearest," "my
dear Veronica," "my dear beautiful Veronica," and did not seem to notice
her discomfort; he spoke in a tremulous voice of "rapture" and "passion"-that "unexplored country" which a "virgin like yourself" must
one day traverse, but only in the company of a lover who had opened
himself completely to her. There must be, he cautioned, no secrets between
lovers-absolutely no corners or recesses of the soul kept in darknessotherwise the raptures of love will be merely physical, and short-lived,
and if the lovers die into each other they will die literally, and not be
resurrected-did she understand? Ah, it was imperative that she understand! And he embraced her, fairly shuddering with emotion; and poor
Veronica nearly fainted. (For no man had ever spoken to her like this,
nor had anyone so abruptly, and so passionately, taken her in his arms.)
"But you shouldn't! That isn't nice! Oh-that isn't nice!" Veronica
gasped. And, like a frightened child, she burst into peals of laughter.
"That isn't-nice-"
That night she retired early, her head reeling as if she had drunk too
much wine, and she was hardly conscious of pulling the bedcovers up
before she slipped-sank-was pulled into-sleep. And in the morning
she found the heart-shaped bloodstone on the pillow beside hcr!-simply
lying on the pillow beside her. (She knew at once, of course, that it was 
jOYCE CAROL OATES ? 123
a gift of Norst's, for two or three days earlier, as they dined in the Avernus
Inn overlooking the magnificent lake, she had made a fuss over his cuff
links-she'd never seen so richly dark a stone before, and found its scintillating depths quite fascinating. The family jewels she had inherited-a
single sapphire, some modest-carated diamonds, a handful of opals, garnets, pearls-struck her suddenly as uninteresting. Norst's bloodstone cuff
links might very well be, as he insisted gaily, inexpensive, even commonplace, but they exerted a fascination upon Veronica, who found it difficult
to take her eyes off them during the meal.) And now-what a surprise!
For several minutes she lay without moving, staring at the large stone,
which was both green and red, and layered with darkness: could such a
beautiful object be, indeed, commonplace?
He had gotten Veronica's maid to tiptoe into her room and lay the
stone beside her, of course, and though the girl denied it-for her mistress
was not so flummoxed by passion as to fail to wonder at the propriety
of Norst's tipping ( or bribing) a domestic servant-Veronica knew that
this was the case: an audacious gesture, of which her family would angrily
disapprove, but one which (ah, she couldn't help herself! ) quite charmed
her.
She slipped the bloodstone on a gold chain, and wore it about her neck
that very day.
The more frequently Veronica saw Ragnar Norst, the less she felt she
knew of him; it frightened her, and excited her, to realize that she would
never know him at all. For one thing, his moods were so capricious ....
He could start off on a walk with her in excellent high spirits, obviously
filled to the brim with energy; fifteen minutes later he would be suddenly
weary, and ask if Veronica wouldn't mind sitting on a bench for a while,
and simply gazing, without speaking, at the landscape. Or perhaps he was
sweetly melancholy, and kept staring mournfully into her eyes, as if he
were yearning, starving, for something, for her . . . and then again, a few
minutes later, he would be telling one of his lengthy, convoluted folktales,
set in Sweden or Denmark or Norway, punctuated with bursts of laughter
(for some of the tales, though sanctified tradition, struck the blushing
young woman as distinctly ribald--not really suited for her ears). He was
at all times unusually perceptive, however; she felt that he was seeing and
hearing and thinking with an almost preternatural clarity. At one unfortunate luncheon, high on the terrace in the walled garden, Veronica's brother
Aaron-a 230-pounder with an exaggerated sense of his own powers of
ratiocination, far more suited for hunting than for civilized discoursebegan to interrogate Norst almost rudely about his background ("Ah, you
claim there is Persian blood on your mother's side of the family?-indeed?
And on your father's side, what sort of blood, do you think-?"), and
it was quite remarkable to witness Norst's transformation: he seemed
immediately to sense that a direct confrontation with this brute would be 
124 ?
?Jl)}Wl BELLEFLEUR
not only disastrous, but distasteful, and so he replied to Aaron's questions
in a courteous, even humble manner, readily admitting when necessary
that he couldn't altogether explain certain ... certain discrepancies ...
no, he regretted that he couldn't account for ... not altogether ... not
at the present time. Veronica had never witnessed a performance of such
exquisite subtlety and tact; she gazed upon him adoringly, and did not
even trouble to be angry with her boorish brother (he was five years her
senior, and imagined that he knew more than she, and that a great deal
of what he knew had to do with her), even though his questioning had
brought droplets of perspiration to Norst's forehead.
And then, afterward, it struck her-Persian blood! But how marvelous!
How enchanting! Persian blood: which accounted for his swarthy skin
and his dark mesmerizing eyes. Little as she knew about Swedes she knew
even less about Persians and found the combination totally enchanting ....
"That 'Count' is an impostor," Aaron said. "He doesn't even trouble
himself to lie intelligently to us."
"Oh, what do you know!" Veronica laughed, waving him away. "You
don't know Ragnar at all."
(Later it was revealed that Aaron had spoken with Senator Payne, and
with two or three acquaintances in Washington, to see if Norst's visa
couldn't be canceled-if Norst couldn't be, with a minimum of legal
squabbling, simply deported back to Europe. But he must have had friends
in high positions, or at any rate friends whose authority was greater than
that of Aaron's contacts, for nothing came of the move; and when Ragnar
Norst returned to Europe he did so solely at his own wish.)
And so Veronica Bellefleur fell in love with the mysterious Ragnar
Norst, though she was not conscious of "falling in love" but only of
becoming more and more obsessed with him-with the thought, the aura,
of him, which pursued her in the unlikeliest of places, and was liable to
call forth a blush to her cheeks at the least appropriate of times. Even
before her illness she was susceptible to odd lethargic reveries during
which his image haunted her; she would give her head a shake, as if to
cast herself free of his spell. A warm lulling erotic daze overcame her. She
sighed often, and her words trailed off into silence, quite maddening
Aaron, who knew, no matter how she denied it, that she was in love with
the count. "But that man is an impostor," Aaron said angrily. "Just as
I'm sure that stone of yours, if you allowed me to have it examined,
would prove to be a fake-!''
"You don't know Ragnar in the slightest," Veronica said, shivering.
Yet she herself was often disturbed by him. He insisted they meet in
the evening, in clandestine places (in the boathouse; beside Bloody Run;
at the very rear of the walled garden, where there was a little grove of
evergreens in which, by day, the children sometimes played) no matter
how such situations compromised her; he insisted upon speaking
"frankly" no matter how his words distressed her. Once he seized both 
,j(\ :z jOYCE CAROL O ATES ,..,. 12.5
her hands in his and murmured in a voice that shook with emotion,
"Someday, my dearest Veronica, this masquerade will end-someday you
will be mine-my most precious possession-and I will be yours-and
you will know then the reality of--of-of the passion which nearly suffocates me-" And indeed his breath became so labored it was nearly a
sob, and his eyes glowed with an unspeakable lust, and after a terrible
moment during which he stared into her eyes almost angrily he turned
aside, throwing himself back against a railing, his arm upraised as if to
shield himself from the sight of her. His chest rose and fell so violently
that Veronica wondered for a terrible moment if he were having a seizure
of some kind.
For several minutes afterward Norst remained leaning against the railing, his heavy-lidded eyes closed, as if he were suddenly drained of all
strength. And afterward, escorting her back to the manor house, he said
very little, and walked feebly, like an aged man; in parting he did no
more than murmur a gentle, melancholy goodbye, and failed even to lift
his gaze to hers. "But Ragnar," Veronica asked, bold with desperation,
"are you angry with me?-why have you turned away from me?" Still he
did not look her in the face. He sighed, and said in a weary voice, "My
dear, perhaps it would be for the best-for you, I am thinking only of
you-if we never met again."
That night she dreamt of him once again, far more vividly; she saw
him more vividly, it seemed, than she had seen him in the flesh. He seized
both her hands and squeezed them so hard she cried out in pain and
surprise, and then he pulled her to him, to his breast, and closed her in
his strong arms. She would have fainted, she would have fallen, had he
not held her so tight .... He kissed her full on the lips, and then buried
his face in her neck, and then, while the swooning girl tried with feeble
hands to prevent him, he tore open her bodice and began to kiss her
breasts, all the while holding her still, and murmuring lulling commanding
words of love. It excited him all the more, that she was wearing the
bloodstone around her neck (for indeed Veronica was wearing it in bed,
beneath her nightgown). You must stop, Ragnar, she whispered, her face
crimson with shame, you must stop, you must stopBy day she only half-recalled her tempestuous dreams, though she was
still under their spell. Strange emotions washed over her, and left her so
drained of energy that her mother asked more than once if she were ill:
she was by turns fearful, and disgusted, and wildly exhilarated, and
ashamed, and defiant, and impatient (for when, when, would he see her
again?-he'd left word with a servant that the em bassy in Washington
had called him), and delighted as a child (for she was certain he would
see her again). Sometimes she ate ravenously, but most of the time she
had no appetite at all-she simply sat at the dining room table, oblivious
of the others, staring into space, sighing, her head aswim with languorous
wraithlike images of her lover. 
126 ?
?)1'JUI B ELLEFLEUR
You must stop, Ragnar, a voice rose shrilly, you must, you must, you
must stop before it's too late ....
* ,,
And then a tragic accident befell poor Aaron, and it was Ragnar Norst
himself who comforted the stricken young woman.
Unwisely, against his father's reiterated wishes, Aaron went out hunting
alone in the woods above Bloody Run, accompanied only by one of his
dogs. While crossing a white-water stream he evidently lost his footing,
fell, and was carried hundreds of yards downstream, over a seven-foot
falls, to his death in a swirling shallow rapids in which rocks and logs
lay in manic profusion. The poor young man's throat was slashed by a
protruding branch, and it was estimated that he must have bled to death,
mercifully, in a matter of minutes. By the time the search party discovered
him (he had been missing then two days) his body, so large, once so
intimidating, was bled white, trapped in a tight little cove of froth-covered
rocks and logs.
(Neither the dog nor the shotgun was ever recovered, which added to
the mystery of the death.)
The stricken Veronica wept and wept, as much for the senselessness of
Aaron's death as for the death itself: for to her there was no mystery,
there was only the fact that she would never see Aaron again, never
exchange words with him again .... No matter how they had quarreled
they had loved each other very much.
How ugly that death was, and how pointless! If the headstrong young
man had only listened to his father's words ... No, Veronica could not
bear it; she would not bear it. She wept for days on end and would allow
no one to comfort her.
Until Ragnar Norst returned.
One morning he drove up the graveled lane in the stately black car
(whose engine was overheated), and insisted that he be allowed to see
Miss Veronica: for he had learned, in Washington, of Aaron's death, and
he knew at once that Veronica must be comforted if she was to survive
the crisis. She was so exquisite, so sensitive, the horror of a brute accidental death might undermine her health ....
The very sight of Norst enlivened her. But she took care, being a discreet
young woman, to hide her feelings; and, indeed, a moment later, the
memory of her brother's death swept over her once again, and she succumbed to a fresh attack of weeping. So Norst took her aside, and walked
with her along the lake, at first saying nothing at all, and even urging her
to cry; and then, when it seemed to him that she was somewhat stronger,
he began to query her about death. About, that is, her fear of death.
Was it death itself that terrified her ... or the accidental nature of that
particular death? Was it death that so alarmed, or the fact that she would
not ( or so she assumed ) ever see her brother again?
Above the choppy dark waters of Lake Nair they paused, to listen to 
jOYCE CAROL O ATES ? 127
waves lapping against the shore. It was nearly sundown. Veronica shuddered, for a faint chill breeze had arisen, and quite naturally, quite gracefully, Norst slipped his arm about her shoulders. He was breathing
heavily. He gave off an air of exCJitement and exhilaration. But his voice
was steady, steady and restrained, and Veronica gave no indication that
she was aware of his emotion; indeed, she kept her gaze shyly averted.
She wondered only if he was aware of the bloodstone she wore, hidden
inside her shirtwaist. But of course he could hardly be aware of it ... he
could hardly know, under the circumstances ....
His arm tightened about her slender shoulders and he brought his
mouth close to her ear. In a gentle, trembling voice he began to speak of
death: death and love: death and love and lovers: and how, by the sacrament of death, lovers are united, and their profane love redeemed. Veronica's heart beat so powerfully she could barely concentrate on his words.
She was aware of his nearness, his almost overwhelming nearness; she
was terrified that he would kiss her, as he had in her dreams, and abuse
her, ignoring her astonished cries .... "Veronica, my dearest," he said,
cupping her chin in his hand, turning her face so that he might look into
her eyes, "you must know that lovers who die together transcend the
physical nature of the human condition ... the tedious physical nature
of the human condition .... You must know that a pure spiritual love
redeems the grossness of the flesh.. . . . So long as I am beside you, to
guide you, to protect you, there is nothing to fear . . . nothing, nothing
to fear ... in this world or the next. I would never allow you to suffer,
my dear girl, do you understand? ... do you trust me?"
Her eyelids were suddenly heavy; she was nearly overcome by a sense
of lassitude, vaguely erotic, that very much resembled the lassitude of her
most secret dreams. Norst's voice was gentle, soothing, rhythmic as the
waves of Lake Noir, beating against her, washing over her. ... Ah, she
could not have protested had he attempted to kiss her!
But he was speaking, still, of love. Of lovers who would "eagerly" die
for each other. "I for you, my dear sweet girl, and you for me-if you
love me-and by that we are redeemed. It is so simple, and yet so profound! Do you see? Do you understand? Your brother's death offended
you because it was an animal's death-brute, senseless, accidental, unshared-and with your sensitivity you crave meaning, and beauty, and a
spiritual transcendence. You crave redemption, as I do. For by death in
one another's arms, my love, we are redeemed ... and all else is unadorned unimagined folly, from which you are perfectly justified to turn
aside in horror. Do you understand, my love? Ah, but you will-you will.
Only have faith in me, my dearest Veronica."
Faintly she murmured that she did not understand. And she felt so
suddenly exhausted, she must lay her head against his shoulder.
"Life and death both, if unadorned by love," Norst continued, in a
rapid, low, excited voice, "are ignominious ... mere folly ... mere 
128 @@)
?J.D}JJI B ELLEFLEUR
accident. They are indistinguishable when not enhanced by passion. For
ordinary people, as you must have seen by now, are little more than
aphids . . . rats . . . brute unthinking animals . . . quite beneath our
contempt, really ... unless of course they frustrate us ... in which case
they must be taken into account ... taken into account and dealt with ...
ugly as that might seem. Do you see, my dear? Yes? No? You must trust
me, and all will become clear. You must have faith in me, Veronica, for
you know, don't you, that I love you, and that I have sworn to have
you ... from a time long past ... a time you cannot remember and I, I
can but dimly recall. ... As for ordinary people, my dear, you must give
them no thought ... you will one day learn to deal with them as I do,
only out of necessity ... I will guide you, I will protect you, if only you
will have faith .... And you must not fear death, for the death of lovers,
dying into love, being born again through love, has nothing of the crudity
of ordinary death about it: do you understand?"
She understood. Yet of course she did not understand. But her head
was so heavy, her eyelids burned with the need to close, if only he would
embrace her, if only he would whisper to her the words she so fervently
wished to hear. ... He had declared his love for her; she had heard it;
she had heard it; yet he had not, yet, declared his wish to marry her; he
had said nothing about speaking to her father, or ...
Suddenly he drew away from her. He was quite agitated, and rubbed
both hands vigorously against his eyes. "My dear Veronica," he said, in
a different voice, "I must get you back home. What can I be thinking of,
keeping you out here in this cold wind-!"
She opened her eyes wide in disbelief.
"I must get you home, you poor girl," Norst murmured.
That night Veronica felt feverish, and despite the drop in temperature she
left her French doors open. And she experienced a dream that was by far
the most alarming, and the most curiously exhilarating, of any dream she
had yet experienced.
She was, and yet she was not, unconscious. She slept, but at the same
time was quite aware of her bed, her surroundings, and the fact that she
lay asleep, her long thick hair loose on her pillow, the bloodstone exposed
on her breast. I am asleep, she thought clearly, as if her spirit floated
above her body, how strange, how wonderful, I am lying there asleep and
my lover is shortly to come to me, and no one will know ....
Almost at once Norst did appear. He must have climbed over the balcony railing, for a moment later he stood before the window, dressed as
usual in his frock coat, his white shirt glaringly white in the darkness, his
goatee and the savage little curls on either side of his forehead vividly
defined. He was silent. He was expressionless. Somewhat taller than his
daylight self-Veronica, paralyzed, unable even to make her eyelids flutter,
estimated that he must be nearly seven feet tall-he stood for a long 
joYcE CAROL O ATES ? 129
moment without moving, simply gazing upon her with an expression of-­
was it infinite longing, infinite sorrow?-was it yearning?-love?
Ragnar, she tried to whisper. My dear. My bridegroom.
She would have opened her arms to him, but she could not move; she
lay paralyzed beneath the covers. Asleep and yet fully awake: conscious
of her wild accelerated heartbeat and of his heartbeat as well. Ragnar,
she whispered. I love you as I have never loved any other man ....
Then he was close beside her bed, without having seemed to move.
He was close beside her bed, stooping over her, and she tried to raise
her arms to him-ah, how she wanted to slide her arms about his neck!­
how she wanted to pull him to her! But she could not move, she could
do no more than draw in her breath sharply as he stooped to kiss her.
She saw his dark moist eyes drawing near, she saw his mouth, his parted
lips, and felt his breath-his warm, ragged, rather meaty breath-she
smelled his breath which was dank, and somewhat fetid-it put her dizzily
in mind of the farm-the farm laborers hauling carcasses-hogs strung
up by their hind legs-blood gushing from their slashed throats, into
enormous tubs- She drew in his breath, which was sour with something
dried and stale and old, very old,. and in a swoon she began to laugh,
every part of her was being tickled, tickled to delirium, to a delicious
frantic delirium, and she did not mind his breath, she did not mind it at
all, or his agitation, his impatience, his roughness, the grinding of his
teeth against hers in a harsh kiss--she did not mind at all-not at all-­
she wanted to shout, and pound at him with her fists-she wanted to
scream-to throw herself about the bed-to kick off the covers, which so
exasperatingly pressed upon her-and she was so hot-slick with perspiration-she could smell her own body, her bodily heat-it was shameful,
and yet delicious-it made her want to snort with laughter-it made her
want to grab hold of her lover-seize him by the hair, by the hair, and
pummel him, and press his head against her, his face against her breasts-­
like that-yes, exactly like that-she could not bear it, what he was doing
to her-his lips, his tongue, his sudden hard teeth-she could not bear
it-she would scream, she would go mad, snorting, shouting, tearing at
him with her nails-My lover, my bridegroom, she would scream, my
husband, my soulAs the days and weeks passed, and Veronica sank ever more deeply into
a state of languid, sweet melancholy, it was commonly believed that the
shock of Aaron's death had plunged her into a "black mood" and that
she would, in time, emerge from it. Yet Veronica rarely thought of her
brother. Her imagination dwelt almost exclusively upon Ragnar Norst.
Throughout the long, tiresome day she yearned for the night, when Norst
carne to her, unfailingly, and gathered her up passionately in his arms,
and made her his bride. There was no need for him to speak of love any
longer; what happened between them went beyond love. Indeed, the trivial 
1 3 0 ? BELLEFLEUR
notion of love-and marriage as well-now struck Veronica as uninteresting. That she had once hoped Ragnar Norst would ask her father for
permission to marry her-! That she had once imagined him an ordinary
man, and herself an ordinary woman-! Well, she had been a very innocent girl at the time.
Strange, wasn't it, people said, that the count had disappeared so suddenly. Evidently he had returned to Europe ... ? And when would he
return, had he said . . . ?
Veronica paid no attention. She knew that people whispered behind her
back, wondering if she was unhappy; wondering if there was any sort of
"understanding" between them. Would there be a marriage? Would there
be a scandal? It did not trouble Veronica in the slightest, that her lover
had left the country: for in her sleep he was magnificently present, and
nothing else mattered.
During the day Veronica drifted about idly, thinking certain forbidden
thoughts, recalling certain sharp, piercing, indefinable pleasures. She sang
tuneless little songs under her breath, reminiscent of the songs Norst had
sung. She tired easily, and liked to lie on a chaise Ionge wrapped in a
shawl, gazing dreamily out toward the lake, watching the lakeshore drive.
Sometimes Norst appeared to her though it wasn't night: she would blink,
and see him standing there a few feet away, gazing at her with that
shameless raw hunger, that embarrassing intensity she had not understood
at the start. Graciously, languidly, she would lift her hand to him, and
he would lean forward to raise it to his greedy lips ... and then some
clumsy heavy-footed fool of a servant would enter the room, and Norst
would vanish.
"Oh, I hate you!" Veronica sometimes cried. "Why don't you all leave
me alone!"
They began to worry about her. She was so listless, so pale, the color
had gone out of her face and she looked positively waxen (though more
beautiful than ever, Veronica thought, why don't you admit it-Ragnar's
love has made me more beautiful than ever); she had no appetite for
anything more than toast and fruit juice and an occasional pastry; she
was absentminded, often didn't hear people speaking to her, seemed asleep
with her eyes open, was obviously lost in grief for her poor dead
brother. ... Even when the doctor was examining her, listening to her
heart with his silly instrument, she was daydreaming about her lover (who
had appeared to her the night before, and who had promised to return
the following night) and could not answer the questions put to her. She
would have liked to explain: Her soul was swooning downward, gently
downward, she was not at all unhappy, she was certainly not in mourning
(in mourning for whom?-her boorish headstrong brother who had died
such an ugly death?), everything was unfolding as it must, according to
the destiny fate had determined for her. She would not resist, would not
want to resist; nor did she want anyone else to interfere. Sometimes during 
joYcE CAROL O ATES ? 131
the daylight hours she caught sight of a thin crescent moon, half-invisible
in the pale sky, and the sight of it pierced her breast like her lover's kiss.
She would lie down, suddenly dizzy, and let her head drop heavily back,
and her eyes roll white in her skull ....
How sweet it was, this utterly unresisting melancholy: this sense of a
downward spiral which was both the pathway her soul took, and her
soul itself. The air grew heavy; it exerted pressure upon her; sometimes
she found breathing difficult, and held her lungs still and empty for long
moments at a time. She would have liked to explain to the nurse who
now sat at the foot of her bed, or slept on a cot of her own just outside
her door, that she was not at all unhappy. Others might be unhappy that
she was leaving them but they were simply jealous, ignorant people who
didn't understand her. They couldn't know how deeply she was loved,
for instance; how Norst valued her; how he had promised to protect her.
There were times, however, when her dreams were confused and unpleasant, and Norst did not appear; or, if he did appear, his aspect was
so greatly changed she could not recognize him. (Once he came in the
shape of a gigantic yellow-eyed owl with ferocious ear tufts; another time
he appeared in the shape of a monstrous stunted dwarf with a hump
between his shoulder blades; still another time he was a tall, slender,
eerily beautiful girl with Oriental eyes and a slow, sensuous smile-a smile
Veronica could not bear to gaze upon, it was so knowing, so obscene.)
On and on the dreams went, tumbling her about mercilessly, mocking her
pleas for tenderness, for love, for her husband's embrace. When she woke
from one of these dreams, often in the middle of the night, she would
force herself to sit up, her head aching violently, and a flame of panic
would touch her-for wasn't she seriously ill, wasn't she perhaps dying,
couldn't something be done to stop the downward spiral of her
soul? . . . Once, she heard her nurse groaning, thrashing about in the
midst of her own nightmare.
And then two things happened: the nurse (an attractive woman in her
mid-thirties who had been born in the village, and had trained in the
Falls) grew gravely ill with a blood disorder, and Veronica herself, already
weakened and anemic, caught a cold that passed into bronchitis and then
into pneumonia in a matter of days. So she was hospitalized, and lapsed
into a sort of stupor, during which busy dream-wraiths took care of her.
They took excellent care of her: providing her with fresh, strong blood,
and feeding her through tubes, so that she could not protest, and was
thereby saved. In fact there was no question of dying, with so much
skillful, professional activity on all sides; and in a week or two Veronica
was not only fully conscious but even hungry. One of the Bellefleur maids
shampooed her hair, which was still luxurious and beautiful; and she too
was beautiful despite her pallor and the hollows around her eyes. One
day she said, "I'm hungry," in a child's affronted voice, "I want to eat, 
1 3 2 tfl:€11 M.l¥-11 B EL LEFLEUR
I'm hungry, and I'm bored with lying here in bed .... I can't stand it a
minute longer!"
So she was saved. Her lungs were well; the bouts of dizziness had
vanished; her color was back. Upon admission to the hospital her doctors
had discovered, high on her left breast, a curious fresh scratch or bite,
that looked at the same time as if it were fairly old, which must have
been made by one of the Bellefleur cats, hugged unwisely against Veronica's bosom. (For though the Bellefleurs had not nearly so many cats and
kittens in those days, as they did in Germaine's time, there were at least
six or ten of them in the household, and any one of them might have
been responsible for Veronica's tiny wound.) Veronica herself knew nothing about it: she belonged to that generation of women who rarely, and
then only reluctantly, gazed upon their naked bodies, and so it was a
considerable surprise for her to learn that there was, on her breast, an
odd little scratch or bite that had become mildly inflamed. Of course it
was a very minor affair, her doctors assured her, and had nothing to do
with her serious problems of anemia and pneumonia.
Indirectly she learned, to her astonishment and grief, that her nurse had
died-the poor woman had died of acute anemia only a few days after
having left Bellefleur Manor. Most extraordinary was the fact that, according to the woman's family, she had been in perfect health until she
went into the employ of the Bellefleurs; she had never, they claimed, been
anemic at all.
But Veronica had not died.
Now the disturbing, tumultuous dreams were over. A part of her life
was over. She slept deeply and profoundly, safe in her hospital room, and
when she woke in the morning she woke completely, well rested, elated,
wanting at once to be on her feet. She was ecstatic with good health. In
her luxurious cashmere robe she walked about the hospital wing, attended
by her personal maid, and of course everyone fell in love with her: for
she was radiant as an angel, and that long red-blond hair that fell loose
on her shoulders-! She was merry and prankish as a child, she told silly
little jokes, she even toyed, for a day or two, with the idea of becoming
a nurse. How charming she would look, in her prim white uniform ....
And then, perhaps, she would marry a doctor. And the two of them
would be on the side of life.
Yes, that was it: she wanted to be on the side of life.
She was very happy, and begged to be discharged from the hospital,
but her family was cautious (for, after all, Veronica's nurse had diedand she had seemed to be in good health), and her doctors wanted to
keep her under observation for another several days. For there was something about her case that perplexed them.
"But I want to go home now," she said, pouting. "I'm bored with
doing nothing, I hate being an invalid, having people look at me in that
condescending pitying way .... "
j oYcE CAROL O ATES ? 133
And then one day, an odd thing happened. She was watching some
teenaged boys playing football in a field adjacent to the hospital grounds,
and though she wanted to admire them, and to applaud their physical
dexterity and stamina, she found herself becoming increasingly depressed.
They were so energetic, so vulgar ... so filled with life .... Like aphids
or rats .... There was no subtlety to them, no meaning; no beauty. She
turned away in disgust.
She turned away, and began to weep uncontrollably. What had she
lost! What had gone oqt of her life, when they had "saved" her here in
the hospital! Her thin cheeks were growing rounded again and her deadwhite skin was turning rosy but the mirror's image did not please her;
she saw that it was uninteresting, banal, really quite vulgar. She was
uninteresting now, and her lover, if he returned, if he ever happened to
gaze upon her, would be sadly disappointed.
( But her lover: who was he ? She could not clearly recall him. Ragnar
Norst. But who was that, what did he mean to her? Where had he gone?
The dreams had vanished, and Ragnar Norst had vanished, and something
so profound had gone out of her life that she halfway felt, despite her
heartiness, her relentless normality, that it was her very soul that had
been taken from her. The hospital had seen to that: it had "saved" her.)
Still, she was grateful to be alive. And of course the family was delighted
to have her back again. They thought, still, that she had succumbed to a
severe black mood as a consequence of Aaron's death, and she could not
tell them otherwise.
Yes, Veronica thought, a dozen times a day, I am grateful to be alive.
And then one afternoon as she was being driven to the Falls for tea with
an elderly aunt, she saw the Lancia Lambda approaching-saw it appear
around a turn in the road, blankly regal, imperious, bearing down upon
her with the authority of an image out of a dream. She immediately
rapped on the glass partition and told the chauffeur to stop.
So Norst braked, and stopped his car, and came over to see her. He
was wearing white. His hair and goatee and eyes were as black as ever,
and his smile rather more hesitant than she recalled. Her lover? Her husband? This stranger? ... He had heard, he said in a nervous murmur, of
her illness. Evidently she had been hospitalized, and had been very ill. As
soon as he returned from Sweden he had come up to see her, and had
taken rooms at the Lake Avernus Inn. What a delight it was to see her,
like this, so suddenly, with no warning-to see her looking so supremely
healthy, and as beautiful as everHe broke off, and took her hand, squeezing it hard. A flame seemed to
pass over his vision. He trembled, his breathing grew rapid and shallow,
she felt, keenly, the near-paroxysm of his desire for her, and in that instant
she knew that she loved him, and had loved him all along. He managed
to disguise his agitation by playfullly pulling her glove down an inch or 
134 ?
?)DFJI B ELLEFLEUR
two, and kissing the back of her hand; but even this gesture became a
passionate one. Exclaiming, Veronica snatched her hand away.
They stared at each other for several minutes, in silence. She saw that
he was indeed the man who had come to her in her dreams-and that he
fully recognized her as well. But what was there to say? He was staying
at Lake Avernus, a mere twelve miles away; naturally they would see each
other; they would, perhaps, resume their daylight courtship. It was harmless, and it gave them something to do during the long daylight hours.
Norst was asking about her family, and about her health; and about her
nights. Did she sleep well, now? Did she wake fully rested? And would
she, just for tonight, wear the bloodstone to bed? ... and leave the
window of her room open? Just for tonight, he said.
She laughed, her face burning, and fully meant to say no; but somehow
she did not say no.
She was gazing with a bemused smile at the teethmarks on the back of
her hand, which were filling in slowly with blood. 
········ III ········
THE SCIENCE FICTION
VAMPIRE
V
ampires were born of myth and superstition, but our modern age
demands more rational explanations. It is no longer enough to
blame vampirism on supernatural curses and demonic possession.
A more skeptical, secular era cannm help but look for scientific justifications
for old-fashioned horrors. That habit of mind has, of course, also produced
a vast audience for science fiction tales that give ingenious explanations,
based on real science, for phenomenal events.
It is not to be wondered at, then, that since the 1950s and the dawn of
the atomic age, science writers should have been tempted to offer up explanations for the existence of vampires. While previously explained as creatures
of Satan eager to kill and to damn humankind, vampires are now described
as the products of bacteria, mutation, and evolution, and even as
extraterrestrials.
Two of the best scientific vampire novels, I Am Legend by Richard
Matheson (1954) and The Vampire Tapestry by Suzy McKee Charnas
(1980), are excerpted in this volume. Other memorable books include
Darker Than You Think by Jack Williamson ( 1940), which imaginatively
employs quantum mechanics to rationalize werewolves, witchcraft, and
vampires; and Sabella, or The Bloodstone, by Tanith Lee ( 1980), which
transplants an enigmatic female vampire to the scarlet hills of Mars. Like
Charnas' The Vampire Tapestry, both The Hunger, by Whitley Strieber
(1981, excerpted here), and Fever Dream, by George R. R. Martin (1982),
present vampires as an entirely different species who appear to have
evolved alongside humans.
Of the following stories, the most explanatory is the selection from I
Am Legend. "Unicorn Tapestry" moves the dialogue of explanation into
the psychotherapist's office, while Susan Casper's "A Child of Darkness"
leaves the reader hovering between explanation and wonder. "Shambleau," written by a science fiction author and set on another planet,
deals with the classical male fear of woman. 
C. L. MOORE
(19II-1987)
Catherine Lucille Moore was born in Indianapolis, Indiana where, because
she was a sickly child, she became an early and avid reader.
Moore gained instant fame and recognition for her first published story,
"Shambleau, " which appeared in Weird Tales in 1 933. She then went on
to use its main character, Northwest Smith, in later novels. In 1 949,
Moore married Henry Kuttner, himself a famous science fiction writer.
Thus began a prolific partnership; they published dozens of novels both
separately and together. Kuttner's wit and powerful ideas complemented
Moore's talents of fluency and precision. They often worked together
under pseudonyms, the most famous being Lewis Padgett and Laurence
O'Donnell. The popular Clash By Night (1 943) was written by Moore
alone (under the O'Donnell pseudonym); the sequel, Fur.y, a collaboration
between the two writers, was set after holocaust in cities under the sea
of Venus.
Moore was the more prestigious writer in their partnership, though
her husband received much of the credit. Her contribution can be accurately judged from the collection The Best of C. L. Moore (1 97 5).
Other collections in which her work appears include A Gnome There
Was (1 950), Robots Have No Tails (1 952), Line To Tomorrow (1 954),
No Boundaries (1 955), and Clash By Night and Other Stories (1 980).
After Kuttner's death in 1 958, Moore began writing for television, including scripts for such series as Maverick and 77 Sunset Strip, until
she remarried in 1 963 and abandoned her writing career.
In "Shambleau, " the tale that follows, we see what canny use Moore
makes of classical mythology. Her otherworldly creature is clearly modeled on the Greek story of Medusa, one of the three Gorgons whose hair
had been transformed into a nest of serpents. Upon seeing her face, any
creature would be turned into stone. Perseus was able to slay the monstrous Medusa by keeping his eyes on her reflection in his shield, never
looking at her directly. In "Shambleau, " Northwest Smith's friend also
makes use of a mirror to help in his battle against the repulsively sweet
title character.
"Shambleau" was considered at the time a strange story to be written
by a woman because of its grotesque imagery and sexual innuendoes. Its
daring and fresh subject matter greatly affected later science fiction writers, who were inspired by this odd tale of the first alien vampire ever to
be given a voice in science fiction. 
SHAM BLEAU
'
Man has conquered space before. You may be sure of that.
Somewhere beyond the Egyptians, in that dimness out of which come
echoes of half-mythical name-Atlantis, Mu-somewhere back of history's
first beginnings there must have been an age when mankind, like us today,
built cities of steel to house its star-roving ships and knew the names of
the planets in their own native tongues-heard Venus' people call their
wet world "Sha-ardol" in that soft, sweet, slurring speech and mimicked
Mars' guttural "Lakkdiz" from the harsh tongues of Mars' dry/and dwellers. You may be sure of it. Man has conquered Space before, and out of
that conquest faint, faint echoes run still through a world that has forgotten
the very fact of a civilization which must have been as mighty as our own.
There have been too many myths and legends for us to doubt it. The
myth of the Medusa, for instance, can never have had its roots in the soil
of Earth. That tale of the snake-haired Gorgon whose gaze turned the
gazer to stone never originated about any creature that Earth nourished.
And those ancient Greeks who told the story must have remembered,
dimly and half believing, a tale of antiquity about some strange being
from one of the outlying planets their remotest ancestors once trod.
"Shambleau! Ha ... Shambleau!" The wild hysteria of the mob rocketed
from wall to wall of Lakkdarol's narrow streets and the storming of heavy
boots over the slag-red pavement made an ominous undernote to that
swelling bay, "Shambleau! Shambleau!"
Northwest Smith heard it coming and stepped into the nearest doorway,
laying a wary hand on his heat-gun's grip, and his colorless eyes narrowed.
Strange sounds were common enough in the streets of Earth's latest colony
on Mars-a raw, red little town where anything might happen, and very
often did. But Northwest Smith, whose name is known and respected in
every dive and wild outpost on a dozen wild planets, was a cautious man,
despite his reputation. He set his back against the wall and gripped his
pistol, and heard the rising shout come nearer and nearer.
Then into his range of vision flashed a red running figure, dodging like
a hunted hare from shelter to shelter in the narrow street. It was a girl-­
a berry-brown girl in a single tattered garment whose scarlet burnt the
eyes with its brilliance. She ran wearily, and he could hear her gasping
breath from where he stood. As she came into view he saw her hesitate
and lean one hand against the waLl for support, and glance wildly around
for shelter. She must not have seen him in the depths of the doorway, for
as the bay of he mob grew louder and the pounding feet sounded almost 
138 ?
?)})}Ill SHAMBLEAU
at the corner she gave a despairing little moan and dodged into the recess
at his very side.
When she saw him standing there, tall and leather-brown, hand on his
heat-gun, she sobbed once, inarticulately, and collapsed at his feet, a huddle of burning scarlet and bare, brown limbs.
Smith had not seen her face, but she was a girl, and sweetly made and
in danger; and though he had not the reputation of a chivalrous man,
something in her hopeless huddle at his feet touched that chord of sympathy for the underdog that stirs in every Earthman, and he pushed her
gently into the corner behind him and jerked out his gun, just as the first
of the running mob rounded the corner.
It was a motley crowd, Earthmen and Martians and a sprinkling of
Venusian swampmen and strange, nameless denizens of unnamed planets-a typical Lakkdarol mob. When the first of them turned the corner
and saw the empty street before them there was a faltering in the rush
and the foremost spread out and began to search the doorways on both
sides of the street.
"Looking for something?" Smith's sardonic call sounded clear above
the clamor of the mob.
They turned. The shouting died for a moment as they took in the scene
before them-tall Earthman in the space-explorer's leathern garb, all one
color from the burning of savage suns save for the sinister pallor of his
no-colored eyes in a scarred and resolute face, gun in his steady hand and
the scarlet girl crouched behind him, panting.
The foremost of the crowd-a burly Earthman in tattered leather from
which the Patrol insignia had been ripped away-stared for a moment
with a strange expression of incredulity on his face over-spreading the
savage exultation of the chase. Then he let loose a deep-throated bellow,
"Shambleau!" and lunged forward. Behind him the mob took up the cry
again, "Shambleau! Shambleau! Shambleau!" and surged after.
Smith, lounging negligently against the wall, arms folded and gun-hand
draped over his left forearm, looked incapable of swift motion, but at the
leader's first forward step the pistol swept in a practiced half-circle and
the dazzle of blue-white heat leaping from its muzzle seared an arc in the
slag pavement at his feet. It was an old gesture, and not a man in the
crowd but understood it. The foremost recoiled swiftly against the surge
of those in the rear, and for a moment there was confusion as the two
tides met and struggled. Smith's mouth curled into a grim curve as he
watched. The man in the mutilated Patrol uniform lifted a threatening fist
and stepped to the very edge of the deadline, while the crowd rocked to
and fro behind him.
"Are you crossing that line ?" queried Smith in an ominously gentle
VOICe.
'We want the girl!"
"Come and get her!" Recklessly Smith grinned into his face. He saw 
')_',) .. -:(
·. j\) 'L c. L. MOORE \;..- 139
danger there, but his defiance was not the foolhardy gesture it seemed.
An expert psychologist of mobs from long experience, he sensed no murder here. Not a gun had appeared in any hand in the crowd. They desired
the girl with an inexplicable bloodthirstiness he was at a loss to understand, but toward himself he sensed no such fury. A mauling he might
expect, but his life was in no danger. Guns would have appeared before
now if they were coming out at all. So he grinned in the man's angry face
and leaned lazily against the wall.
Behind their self-appointed leader the crowd milled impatiently, and
threatening voices began to rise again. Smith heard the girl moan at his
feet.
"What do you want with her ?" he demanded.
"She's Shambleau! Shambleau, you fool! Kick her out of there-we'll
take care of her!"
"I'm taking care of her," drawled Smith.
"She's Shambleau, I tell you! Damn your hide, man, we never let those
things live! Kick her out here!"
The repeated name had no meaning to him, but Smith's innate stubbornness rose defiantly as the crowd surged forward to the very edge of
the arc, their clamor growing louder. "Shambleau! Kick her out here!
Give us Shambleau! Shambleau!"
Smith dropped his indolent pose like a cloak and planted both feet
wide, swinging up his gun threateningly. "Keep back!" he yelled. "She's
mine! Keep back!"
He had no intention of using that heat-beam. He knew by now that
they would not kill him unless he started the gunplay himself, and he did
not mean to give up his life for any girl alive. But a severe mauling he
expected, and he braced himself instinctively as the mob heaved within
itself.
To his astonishment a thing happened then that he had never known
to happen before. At his shouted defiance the foremost of the mob-those
who had heard him clearly-drew back a little, not in alarm but evidently
surprised. The ex-Patrolman said, "Yours! She's yours?" in a voice from
which puzzlement crowded out the anger.
Smith spread his booted legs wide before the crouching figure and flourished his gun.
"Yes," he said. "And I'm keeping her! Stand back there!"
The man stared at him wordlessly, and horror, disgust, and incredulity
mingled on his weather-beaten face. The incredulity triumphed for a moment and he said again,
"Yours!"
Smith nodded defiance.
The man stepped back suddenly, unutterable contempt in his very pose.
He waved an arm to the crowd and said loudly, "It's-his!" and the press 
>) .?
I Jl) ( 140 -- S HAMBLEAU
melted away, gone silent, too, and the look of contempt spread from face
to face,
The ex-Patrolman spat on the slag-paved street and turned his back
indifferently. "Keep her, then," he advised briefly over one shoulder. "But
don't let her out again in this town!"
Smith stared in perplexity almost open-mouthed as the suddenly scornful
mob began to break up. His mind was in a whirl. That such bloodthirsty
animosity should vanish in a breath he could not believe. And the curious
mingling of contempt and disgust on the faces he saw baffled him even
more. Lakkdarol was anything but a puritan town-it did not enter his
head for a moment that his claiming the brown girl as his own had caused
that strangely shocked revulsion to spread through the crowd. No, it was
something more deeply-rooted than that. Instinctive, instant disgust had
been in the faces he saw-they would have looked less so if he had admitted cannibalism or Pharo/-worship.
And they were leaving his vicinity as swiftly as if whatever unknowing
sin he had committed were contagious. The street was emptying as rapidly
as it had filled. He saw a sleek Venusian glance back over his shoulder
as he turned the corner and sneer, "Shambleau!" and the word awoke a
new line of speculation in Smith's mind. Shambleau! Vaguely of French
origin, it must be. And strange enough to hear it from the lips of Venusians and Martian drylanders, but it was their use of it that puzzled him
more. "We never let those things live," the ex-Patrolman had said. It
reminded him dimly of something ... an ancient line from some writing
in his own tongue ... "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live." He smiled
to himself at the similarity, and simultaneously was aware of the girl at
his elbow.
She had risen soundlessly. He turned to face her, sheathing his gun,
and stared at first with curiosity and then in the entirely frank openness
with which men regard that which is not wholly human. For she was not.
He knew it at a glance, though the brown, sweet body was shaped like
a woman's and she wore the garment of scarlet-he saw it was leatherwith an ease that few unhuman beings achieve toward clothing. He knew
it from the moment he looked into her eyes, and a shiver of unrest went
over him as he met them. They were frankly green as young grass, with
slit-like, feline pupils that pulsed unceasingly, and there was a look of
dark, animal wisdom in their depths-that look of the beast which sees
more than man.
There was no hair upon her face-neither brows nor lashes, and he
would have sworn that the tight scarlet turban bound around her head
covered baldness. She had three fingers and a thumb, and her feet had
four digits apiece too, and all sixteen of them were tipped with round
claws that sheathed back into the flesh like a eat's. She ran her tongue
over her lips-a thin, pink, flat tongue as feline as her eyes-and spoke 
with difficulty. He felt that that throat and tongue had never been shaped
for human speech.
"Not-afraid now," she said softly, and her little teeth were white and
pointed as a kitten's.
"What did they want you for ?" he asked her curiously. "What had you
done ? Shambleau ... is that your name ?"
"!-not talk your-speech," she demurred hesitantly.
"Well, try to-I want to know. Why were they chasing you? Will you
be safe on the street now, or hadn't you better get indoors somewhere?
They looked dangerous."
"I-go with you." She brought it out with difficulty.
"Say you!" Smith grinned. "What are you, anyhow? You look like a
kitten to me."
"Shambleau." She said it somberly.
"Where d'you live? Are you a Martian?"
"I come from-from far-from long ago-far country--"
"Wait!" laughed Smith. "You're getting your wires crossed. You're not
a Martian?"
She drew herself up very straigbt beside him, lifting the turbaned head,
and there was something queenly in the pose of her.
"Martian?" she said scornfully. "My people-are-are-you have no
word. Your speech-hard for me."
"What's yours? I might know it--try me."
She lifted her head and met his eyes squarely, and there was in hers a
subtle amusement-he could have sworn it.
"Some day !-speak to you in--my own language," she promised, and
the pink tongue flicked out over her lips, swiftly, hungrily.
Approaching footsteps on the red pavement interrupted Smith's reply.
A dryland Martian came past, reeling a little and exuding an aroma of
segir-whisky, the Venusian brand. When he caught the red flash of the
girl's tatters he turned his head sharply, and as his segir-steeped brain
took in the fact of her presence he lurched toward the recess unsteadily,
bawling, "Shambleau, by Pharo/! Shambleau!" and reached out a clutching hand.
Smith struck it aside contemptuously.
"On your way, drylander," he advised.
The man drew back and stared,, blear-eyed.
"Yours, eh?" he croaked. "Zut! You're welcome to it!" And like the
ex-Patrolman before him he spat on the pavement and turned away, muttering harshly in the blasphemous tongue of the drylands.
Smith watched him shuffle off., and there was a crease between his
colorless eyes, a nameless unease rising within him.
"Come on," he said abruptly to the girl. "If this sort of thing is going
to happen we'd better get indoors. Where shall I take you?"
"With-you," she murmured. 
142 @9
?) }11! SHAMBLEAU
He stared down into the flat green eyes. Those ceaselessly pulsing pupils
disturbed him, but it seemed to him, vaguely, that behind the animal
shallows of her gaze was a shutter-a closed barrier that might at any
moment open to reveal the very deeps of that dark knowledge he
sensed there.
Roughly he said again, "Come on, then," and stepped down into the
street.
She pattered along a pace or two behind him, making no effort to keep
up with his long strides, and though Smith-as men know from Venus to
Jupiter's moons-walks as softly as a cat, even in spacemen's boots, the
girl at his heels slid like a shadow over the rough pavement, making
so little sound that even the lightness of his footsteps was loud in the
empty street.
Smith chose the less frequented ways of Lakkdarol, and somewhat
shamefacedly thanked his nameless gods that his lodgings were not far
away, for the few pedestrians he met turned and stared after the two with
that by now familiar mingling of horror and contempt which he was as
far as ever from understanding.
The room he had engaged was a single cubicle in a lodging-house on
the edge of the city. Lakkdarol, raw camp-town that it was in those days,
could have furnished little better anywhere within its limits, and Smith's
errand there was not one he wished to advertise. He had slept in worse
places than this before, and knew that he would do so again.
There was no one in sight when he entered, and the girl slipped up the
stairs at his heels and vanished through the door, shadowy, unseen by
anyone in the house. Smith closed the door and leaned his broad shoulders
against the panels, regarding her speculatively.
She took in what little the room had to offer in a glance-frowsy bed,
rickety table, mirror hanging unevenly and cracked against the wall, unpainted chairs-a typical camp-town room in an Earth settlement abroad.
She accepted its poverty in that single glance, dismissed it, then crossed
to the window and leaned out for a moment, gazing across the low rooftops toward the barren countryside beyond, red slag under the late afternoon sun.
"You can stay here," said Smith abruptly, "until I leave town. I'm
waiting here for a friend to come in from Venus. Have you eaten?"
"Yes," said the girl quickly. "I shall-need no-food for-a while."
"Well-" Smith glanced around the room. "I'll be in sometime tonight.
You can go or stay just as you please. Better lock the door behind me."
With no more formality than that he left her. The door closed and he
heard the key turn, and smiled to himself. He did not expect, then, ever
to see her again.
He went down the steps and out into the late-slanting sunlight with a
mind so full of other matters that the brown girl receded very quickly into 
,'jl) ?2 C. L. MooRE -- 143
the background. Smith's errand in Lakkdarol, like most of his errands, is
better not spoken of. Man lives as he must, and Smith's living was a
perilous affair outside the law and ruled by the ray-gun only. It is enough
to say that the shipping-port and its cargoes outbound interested him
deeply just now, and that the friend he awaited was Yarol the Venusian,
in that swift little Edsel ship the Maid that can flash from world to world
with a derisive speed that laughs at Patrol boats and leaves pursuers
floundering in the ether far behind. Smith and Yarol and the Maid were
a trinity that had caused the Patrol leaders much worry and many gray
hairs in the past, and the future looked very bright to Smith himself that
evening as he left his lodging-house.
Lakkdoral roars by night, as Earthmen's camp-towns have a way of
doing on every planet where Earth's outposts are, and it was beginning
lustily as Smith went down among the awakening lights toward the center
of town. His business there does not concern us. He mingled with the
crowds where the lights were brightest, and there was the click of ivory
counters and the jingle of silver, and red segir gurgled invitingly from
black Venusian bottles, and much later Smith strolled homeward under
the moving moons of Mars, and if the street wavered a little under his
feet now and then-why, that is only understandable. Not even Smith
could drink red segir at every bar from the Martian Lamb to the New
Chicago and remain entirely steady on his feet. But he found his way
back with very little difficulty-considering-and spent a good five minutes hunting for his key before he remembered he had left it in the inner
lock for the girl.
He knocked then, and there was no sound of footsteps from within,
but in a few moments the latch clicked and the door swung open. She
retreated soundlessly before him as he entered, and took up her favorite
place against the window, leaning back on the sill and outlined against
the starry sky beyond. The room was in darkness.
Smith flipped the switch by the door and then leaned back against the
panels, steadying himself. The cool night air had sobered him a little, and
his head was clear enough-liquor went to Smith's feet, not his head, or
he would never have come this far along the lawless way he had chosen.
He lounged against the door now and· regarded the girl in the sudden
glare of the bulbs, blinded a little as much at the scarlet of her clothing
as at the light.
"So you stayed," he said.
"1-waited," she answered softly, leaning farther back against the sill
and clasping the rough wood with slim, three-fingered hands, pale brown
against the darkness.
"Why?"
She did not answer that, but her mouth curved into a slow smile. On
a woman it would have been reply enough-provocative, daring. On
Shambleau there was something pitiful and horrible in it-so human on 
1 44 ?
?) ,\JJI S HAMBLEAU
the face of one half-animal. And yet ... that sweet brown body curving
so softly from the tatters of scarlet leather-the velvety texture of that
brownness-the white-flashing smile .... Smith was aware of a stirring
excitement within him. After all-time would be hanging heavy now until
Yarol came .... Speculatively he allowed the steel-pale eyes to wander
over her, with a slow regard that missed nothing. And when he spoke he
was aware that his voice had deepened a little ....
"Come here," he said.
She came forward slowly, on bare clawed feet that made no sound on
the floor, and stood before him with downcast eyes and mouth trembling
in that pitifully human smile. He took her by the shoulders-velvety soft
shoulders, of a creamy smoothness that was not the texture of human
flesh. A little tremor went over her, perceptibly, at the contact of his
hands. · Northwest Smith caught his breath suddenly and dragged her to
him . . . sweet yielding brownness in the circle of his arms ... heard her
own breath catch and quicken as her velvety arms closed about his neck
And then he was looking down into her face, very near, and the green
animal eyes met his with the pulsing pupils and the flicker of-something-deep behind their shallows-and through the rising clamor of his
blood, even as he stooped his lips to hers, Smith felt something deep
within him shudder away-inexplicable, instinctive, revolted. What it
might be he had no words to tell, but the very touch of her was suddenly
loathsome-so soft and velvet and unhuman-and it might have been an
animal's face that lifted itself to his mouth-the dark knowledge looked
hungrily from the darkness of those slit pupils-and for a mad instant
he knew that same wild, feverish revulsion he had seen in the faces of
the mob ....
"God!" he gasped, a far more ancient invocation against evil than he
realized, then or ever, and he ripped her arms from his neck, swung her
away with such a force that she reeled half across the room. Smith fell
back against the door, breathing heavily, and stared at her while the wild
revolt died slowly within him.
She had fallen to the floor beneath the window, and as she lay there
against the wall with bent head he saw, curiously, that her turban had
slipped-the turban that he had been so sure covered baldness-and a
lock of scarlet hair fell below the binding leather, hair as scarlet as her
garment, as unhumanly red as her eyes were unhumanly green. He stared,
and shook his head dizzily and stared again, for it seemed to him that
the thick lock of crimson had moved, squirmed of itself against her cheek.
At the contact of it her hands flew up and she tucked it away with a
very human gesture and then dropped her head again into her hands. And
from the deep shadow of her fingers he thought she was staring up at
him covertly.
Smith drew a deep breath and passed a hand across his forehead. The
inexplicable moment had gone as quickly as it came-too swiftly for him 
C. L. MooRE 11r2 145
to understand or analyze it. "Got to lay off the segir," he told himself
unsteadily. Had he imagined that scarlet hair? After all, she was no more
than a pretty brown girl-creature from one of the many half-human races
peopling the planets. No more than that, after all. A pretty little thing,
but animal. ... He laughed a little shakily.
"No more of that," he said. "God knows I'm no angel, but there's got
to be a limit somewhere. Here." He crossed to the bed and sorted out a
pair of blankets from the untidy heap, tossing them to the far corner of
the room. "You can sleep there."
Wordlessly she rose from the floor and began to rearrange the blankets,
the uncomprehending resignation of the animal eloquent in every line
of her.
Smith had a strange dream that night. He thought he had awakened to a
room full of darkness and moonlight and moving shadows, for the nearer
moon of Mars was racing through the sky and everything on the planet
below her was endued with a restless life in the dark. And something .. .
some nameless, unthinkable thing ... was coiled about his throat .. .
something like a soft snake, wet and warm. It lay loose and light about
his neck ... and it was moving gently, very gently, with a soft, caressive
pressure that sent little thrills of delight through every nerve and fiber of
him, a perilous delight-beyond physical pleasure, deeper than joy of the
mind. That warm softness was caressing the very roots of his soul with
a terrible intimacy. The ecstasy of it left him weak, and yet he knew-in
a flash of knowledge born of this impossible dream-that the soul should
not be handled .... And with that knowledge a horror broke upon him,
turning the pleasure into a rapture of revulsion, hateful, horrible-but still
most foully sweet. He tried to lift his hands and tear the dreammonstrosity from his throat-tried but half-heartedly; for though his soul
was revolted to its very deeps, yet the delight of his body was so great
that his hands all but refused the attempt. But when at last he tried to
lift his arms a cold shock went over him and he found that he could not
stir ... his body lay stony as marble beneath the blankets, a living marble
that shuddered with a dreadful delight through every rigid vein.
The revulsion grew strong upon him as he struggled against the paralyzing dream-a struggle of soul against sluggish body-titanically, until the
moving dark was streaked with blankness that clouded and closed about
him at last and he sank back into the oblivion from which he had
awakened.
Next morning, when the bright sunlight shining through Mars' clear
thin air awakened him, Smith lay for a while trying to remember. The
dream had been more vivid than reality, but he could not now quite
recall ... only that it had been more sweet and horrible than anything
else in life. He lay puzzling for a while, until a soft sound from the corner
aroused him from his thoughts and he sat up to see the girl lying in a 
146
catlike coil on her blankets, watching him with round, grave eyes. He
regarded her somewhat ruefully.
"Morning," he said. "I've j ust had the devil of a dream .... Well,
hungry?"
She shook her head silently, and he could have sworn there was a covert
gleam of strange amusement in her eyes.
He stretched and yawned, dismissing the nightmare temporarily from
his mind.
"What am I going to do with you?" he inquired, turning to more
immediate matters. "I'm leaving here in a day or two and I can't take
you along, you know. Where'd you come from in the first place ?"
Again she shook her head.
"Not telling? Well, it's your own business. You can stay here until I
give up the room. From then on you'll have to do your own worrying."
He swung his feet to the floor and reached for his clothes.
Ten minutes later, slipping the heat-gun into its holster at his thigh,
Smith turned to the girl. "There's food-concentrate in that box on the
table. It ought to hold you until I get back. And you'd better lock the
door again after I've gone."
Her wide, unwavering stare was his only answer, and he was not sure
she had understood, but at any rate the lock clicked after him as before,
and he went down the steps with a faint grin on his lips.
The memory of last night's extraordinary dream was slipping from him,
as such memories do, and by the time he had reached the street, the girl
and the dream and all of yesterday's happenings were blotted out by the
sharp necessities of the present.
Again the intricate business that had brought him here claimed his
attention. He went about it to the exclusion of all else, and there was a
good reason behind everything he did from the moment he stepped out
into the street until the time when he turned back again at evening; though
had one chosen to follow him during the day his apparently aimless rambling through Lakkdarol would have seemed very pointless.
He must have spent two hours at the least idling by the space-port,
watching with sleepy, colorless eyes the ships that came and went, the
passengers, the vessels lying at wait, the cargoes-particularly the cargoes.
He made the rounds of the town's saloons once more, consuming many
glasses of varied liquors in the course of the day and engaging in idle
conversation with men of all races and worlds, usually in their own languages, for Smith was a linguist of repute among his contemporaries. He
heard the gossip of the spaceways, news from a dozen planets of a thousand different events. He heard the latest joke about the Venusian Emperor and the latest report on the Chino-Aryan war and the latest song
hot from the lips of Rose Robertson, whom every man on the civilized
planets adored as "the Georgia Rose." He passed the day quite profitably,
for his own purposes, which do not concern us now, and it was not until 
C. L. MooRE ? 147
late evening, when he turned homeward again, that the thought of the
brown girl in his room took definite shape in his mind, though it had
been lurking there, formless and submerged, all day.
He had no idea what comprised her usual diet, but he bought a can of
New York roast beef and one of Venusian frog-broth and a dozen fresh
canal-apples and two pounds of that Earth lettuce that grows so vigorously in the fertile canal-soil of Mars. He felt that she must surely find
something to her liking in this broad variety of edibles, and-for his day
had been very satisfactory-he hummed The Green Hills of Earth to himself in a surprisingly good baritone as he climbed the stairs.
The door was locked, as before, and he was reduced to kicking the
lower panels gently with his boot, for his arms were full. She opened the
door with that softness that was characteristic of her and stood regarding
him in the semi-darkness as he stumbled to the table with his load. The
room was unlit again.
"Why don't you turn on the lights?" he demanded irritably after he
had barked his shin on the chair by the table in an effort to deposit his
burden there.
"Light and-dark-they are alike-to me," she murmured.
"Cat eyes, eh? Well, you look the part. Here, I've brought you some
dinner. Take your choice. Fond of roast beef? Or how abut a little
frog-broth?"
She shook her head and backed away a step.
"No," she said. "I can not-eat your food."
Smith's brows wrinkled. "Didn''t you have any of the food tablets?"
Again the red turban shook negatively.
"Then you haven't had anything for-why, more than twenty-four
hours! You must be starved."
"Not hungry," she denied.
"What can I find for you to eat, then? There's time yet if I hurry.
You've got to eat, child."
"I shall-eat," she said softly. "Before long-I shall-feed. Have no-­
worry."
She turned away then and stood at the window, looking out over the
moonlit landscape as if to end the conversation. Smith cast her a puzzled
glance as he opened the can of roast beef. There had been an odd undernote in that assurance that, undefinably, he did not like. And the girl
had teeth and tongue and presumably a fairly human digestive system, to
j udge from her human form. It was nonsense for her to pretend that he
could find nothing that she could eat. She must have had some of the
food concentrate after all, he decided, prying up the thermos lid of the
inner container to release the long-sealed savor of the hot meal inside.
"Well, if you won't eat you won't," he observed philosophically as he
poured hot broth and diced beef into the dishlike lid of the thermos can
and extracted the spoon from its hiding-place between the inner and outer 
?':) ,,7(
148 i)?'C SHAMBLEAU
receptacles. She turned a little to watch him as he pulled up a rickety
chair and sat down to the food, and after a while the realization that her
green gaze was fixed so unwinkingly upon him made the man nervous,
and he said between bites of creamy canal-apple, "Why don't you try a
little of this? It's good."
"The food-1 eat is-better," her soft voice told him in its hesitant
murmur, and again he felt rather than heard a faint undernote of unpleasantness in the words. A sudden suspicion struck him as he pondered on
that last remark-some vague memory of horror-tales told about campfires in the past-and he swung round in the chair to look at her, a tiny,
creeping fear unaccountably arising. There had been that in her wordsin her unspoken words, that menaced ....
She stood up beneath his gaze demurely, wide green eyes with their
pulsing pupils meeting his without a falter But her mouth was scarlet,
and her teeth were sharp ....
"What food do you eat?" he demanded. And then, after a pause, very
softly, "Blood?"
She stared at him for a moment, uncomprehending; then something like
amusement curled her lips and she said scornfully, "You think me-vampire, eh? No-1 am Shambleau!"
Unmistakably there were scorn and amusement in her voice at the suggestion, but as unmistakably she knew what he meant-accepted it as a
logical suspicion-vampires! Fairy tales-but fairy tales this unhuman,
outland creature was most familiar with. Smith was not a credulous man,
nor a superstitious one, but he had seen too many strange things himself
to doubt that the wildest legend might have a basis of fact And there was
something namelessly strange about her. ...
He puzzled over it for a while between deep bites of the canal-apple.
And though he wanted to question her about a great many things, he did
not, for he knew how futile it would be.
He said nothing more until the meat was finished and another canalapple had followed the first, and he had cleared away the meal by the
simple expedient of tossing the empty can out of the window. Then he
lay back in the chair and surveyed her from half-closed eyes, colorless in
a face tanned like saddle-leather. And again he was conscious of the
brown, soft curves of her, velvety-subtle arcs and planes of smooth flesh
under the tatters of scarlet leather. Vampire she might be, unhuman she
certainly was, but desirable beyond words as she sat submissive beneath
his low regard, her red-turbaned head bent, her clawed fingers lying in her
lap. They sat very still for a while, and the silence throbbed between them.
She was so like a woman-an Earth woman-sweet and submissive and
demure, and softer than soft fur, if he could forget the three-fingered
claws and the pulsing eyes-and that deeper strangeness beyond
words .... (Had he dreamed that red lock of hair that moved? Had it
been segir that woke the wild revulsion he knew when he held her in his 
C. L. M ooRE ? 149
arms? Why had the mob so thirsted for her?) He sat and stared, and
despite the mystery of her and the half-suspicions that thronged his
mind-for she was so beautifully soft and curved under those revealing
tatters-he slowly realized that hils pulses were mounting, became aware
of a kindling within ... brown girl-creature with downcast eyes ... and
then the lids lifted and the green flatness of a eat's gaze met his, and last
night's revulsion woke swiftly again, like a warning bell that clanged as
their eyes met-animal, after all, too sleek and soft for humanity, and
that inner strangeness ....
Smith shrugged and sat up. His failings were legion, but the weakness
of the flesh was not among the major ones. He motioned the girl to her
pallet of blankets in the corner and turned to his own bed.
From deeps of sound sleep he awoke much later. He awoke suddenly
and completely, and with that inner excitement that presages something
momentous. He awoke to brilliam moonlight, turning the room so bright
that he could see the scarlet of the girl's rags as she sat up on her pallet.
She was awake, she was sitting with her shoulder half turned to him and
her head bent, and some warning instinct crawled coldly up his spine as
he watched what she was doing. And yet it was a very ordinary thing for
a girl to do-any girl, anywhere. She was unbinding her turban ....
He watched, not breathing, a presentiment of something horrible stirring in his brain, inexplicably .... The red folds loosened, and-he knew
then that he had not dreamed-again a scarlet lock swung down against
her cheek ... a hair, was it? a lock of hair? .... thick as a thick worm
it fell, plumply, against that smooth cheek ... more scarlet than blood
and thick as a crawling worm ... and like a worm it crawled.
Smith rose on an elbow, not realizing the motion, and fixed an unwinking stare, with a sort of sick, fascinated incredulity, on that-that lock of
hair. He had not dreamed. Until now he had taken it for granted that it
was the segir which had made it seem to move on that evening before.
But now ... it was lengthening, stretching, moving of itself. It must be
hair, but it crawled; with a sickening life of its own it squirmed down
against her cheek, caressingly, revoltingly, impossibly.
Wet, it was, and round and thick and shining ....
She unfastened the last fold and whipped the turban off. From what he
saw then Smith would have turned his eyes away-and he had looked on
dreadful things before, without flinching-but he could not stir. He could
only lie there on his elbow staring at the mass of scarlet, squirmingworms, hair, what?-that writhed over her head in a dreadful mockery
of ringlets. And it was lengthening, falling, somehow growing before his
eyes, down over her shoulders in a spilling cascade, a mass that even at
the beginning could never have been hidden under the skull-tight turban
she had worn. He was beyond wondering, but he realized that. And still
it squirmed and lengthened and fell, and she shook it out in a horrible 
150 ?
?)_illlll SHAMBLEAU
travesty of a woman shaking out her unbound hair-until the unspeakable
tangle of it-twisting, writhing, obscenely scarlet-hung to her waist and
beyond, and still lengthened, an endless mass of crawling horror that until
now, somehow, impossibly, had been hidden under the tight-bound turban. It was like a nest of blind, restless red worms ... it was-it was
like naked entrails endowed with an unnatural aliveness, terrible beyond
words.
Smith lay in the shadows, frozen without and within in a sick numbness
that came of utter shock and revulsion.
She shook out the obscene, unspeakable tangle over her shoulders, and
somehow he knew that she was going to turn in a moment and that he
must meet her eyes. The thought of that meeting stopped his heart with
dread, more awfully than anything else in this nightmare horror; for nightmare it must be, surely. But he knew without trying that he could not
wrench his eyes away-the sickened fascination of that sight held him
motionless, and somehow there was a certain beauty ....
Her head was turning. The crawling awfulness rippled and squirmed at
the motion, writhing thick and wet and shining over the soft brown shoulders about which they fell now in obscene cascades that all but hid her
body. Her head was turning. Smith lay numb. And very slowly he saw
the round of her cheek foreshorten and her profile come into view, all
the scarlet horrors twisting ominously, and the profile shortened in turn
and her full face came slowly round toward the bed-moonlight shining
brilliantly as day on the pretty girl-face, demure and sweet, framed in
tangled obscenity that crawled ....
The green eyes met his. He felt a perceptible shock, and a shudder
rippled down his paralyzed spine, leaving an icy numbness in its wake.
He felt the goose-flesh rising. But that numbness and cold horror he
scarcely realized, for the green eyes were locked with his in a long, long
look that somehow presaged nameless things-not altogether unpleasant
things-the voiceless voice of her mind assailing him with little murmurous prom1ses. . . .
For a moment he went down into a blind abyss of submission; and
then somehow the very sight of that obscenity in eyes that did not then
realize they saw it, was dreadful enough to draw him out of the seductive
darkness ... the sight of her crawling and alive with unnamable horror.
She rose, and down about her in a cascade fell the squirming scarlet
of-of what grew upon her head. It fell in a long, alive cloak to her bare
feet on the floor, hiding her in a wave of dreadful, wet, writhing life. She
put up her hands and like a swimmer she parted the waterfall of it, tossing
the masses back over her shoulders to reveal her own brown body, sweetly
curved. She smiled exquisitely, and in starting waves back from her forehead and down about her in a hideous background writhed the snaky
wetness of her living tresses. And Smith knew that he looked upon
Medusa. 
C. L. MOORE ? 151
The knowledge of that-the realization of vast backgrounds reaching
into misted history-shook him out of his frozen horror for a moment,
and in that moment he met her eyes again, smiling, green as glass in the
moonlight, half hooded under drooping lids. Through the twisting scarlet
she held out her arms. And there was something soul-shakingly desirable
about her, so that all the blood surged to his head suddenly and he
stumbled to his feet like a sleeper in a dream as she swayed toward him,
infinitely graceful, infinitely sweet in her cloak of living horror.
And somehow there was beauty in it, the wet scarlet writhings with
moonlight sliding and shining along the thick, worm-round tresses and
losing itself in the masses only to glint again and move silvery along
writhing tendrils-an awful, shuddering beauty more dreadful than any
ugliness could be.
But all this, again, he but half realized, for the insidious murmur was
coiling again through his brain, promising, caressing, alluring, sweeter
than honey; and the green eyes that held his were clear and burning like
the depths of a jewel, and behind the pulsing slits of darkness he was
staring into a greater dark that held all things .... He had known-dimly
he had known when he first gazed into those flat animal shallows that
behind them lay this-all beauty and terror, all horror and delight, in the
infinite darkness upon which her eyes opened like windows, paned with
emerald glass.
Her lips moved, and in a murmur that blended indistinguishably with
the silence and the sway of her body and the dreadful sway of her-her
hair-she whispered-very softly, very passionately, "I shall speak to you
now-in my own tongue-oh, beloved!"
And in her living cloak she swayed to him, the murmur swelling, seductive and caressing in his innermost brain-promising, compelling, sweeter
than sweet. His flesh crawled to the horror of her, but it was a perverted
revulsion that clasped what it loathed. His arms slid round her under the
sliding cloak, wet, wet and warm and hideously alive-and the sweet
velvet body was clinging to his, her arms locked about his neck-and
with a whisper and a rush the unspeakable horror closed about them both.
In nightmares until he died he remembered that moment when the living
tresses of Shambleau first folded him in their embrace. A nauseous, smothering odor as the wetness shut around him-thick, pulsing worms clasping
every inch of his body, sliding, writhing, their wetness and warmth striking through his garments as if he stood naked to their embrace.
All this in a grave instant-and after that a tangled flash of conflicting
sensation before oblivion closed over him. For he remembered the
dream-and knew it for nightmare reality now, and the sliding, gently
moving caresses of those wet, warm worms upon his flesh was an ecstasy
above words-that deeper ecstasy that strikes beyond the body and beyond the mind and tickles the very roots of the soul with unnatural delight. So he stood, rigid as marble, as helplessly stony as any of Medusa's 
152 ?
MJ¥JI S HAMBLEAU
victims in ancient legends were, while the terrible pleasure of Shambleau
thrilled and shuddered through every fiber of him; through every atom of
his body and the intangible atoms of what men call the soul, through all
that was Smith the dreadful pleasure ran. And it was truly dreadful. Dimly
he knew it, even as his body answered to the root-deep ecstasy, a foul
and dreadful wooing from which his very soul shuddered away-and yet
in the innermost depths of that soul some grinning traitor shivered with
delight. But deeply, behind all this, he knew horror and revulsion and
despair beyond telling, while the intimate caresses crawled obscenely in
the secret places of his soul-knew that the soul should not be handledand shook with the perilous pleasure through it all.
And this conflict and knowledge, this mingling of rapture and revulsion
all took place in the flashing of a moment while the scarlet worms coiled
and crawled upon him, sending deep, obscene tremors of that infinite
pleasure into every atom that made up Smith. And he could not stir in
that slimy, ecstatic embrace-and a weakness was flooding that grew
deeper after each succeeding wave of intense delight, and the traitor in
his soul strengthened and drowned out the revulsion-and something
within him ceased to struggle as he sank wholly into a blazing darkness
that was oblivion to all else but that devouring rapture ....
The young Veunsian climbing the stairs to his friend's lodging-room pulled
out his key absent-mindedly, a pucker forming between his fine brows.
He was slim, as all Venusians are, as fair and sleek as any of them, and
as with most of his countrymen the look of cherubic innocence on his
face was wholly deceptive. He had the face of a fallen angel, without
Lucifer's majesty to redeem it; for a black devil grinned in his eyes and
there were faint lines of ruthlessness and dissipation about his mouth to
tell of the long years behind him that had run the gamut of experiences
and made his name, next to Smith's, the most hated and the most respected in the records of the Patrol.
He mounted the stairs now with a puzzled frown between his eyes. He
had come into Lakkdarol on the noon liner-the Maid in her hold very
skillfully disguised with paint and otherwise--to find in lamentable disorder the affairs he had expected to be settled. And cautious inquiry elicited
the information that Smith had not been seen for three days. That was
not like his friend-he had never failed before, and the two stood to lose
not only a large sum of money but also their personal safety by the
inexplicable lapse on the part of Smith. Yarol could think of one solution
only: fate had at last caught up with his friend. Nothing but physical
disability could explain it.
Still puzzling, he fitted his key in the lock and swung the door open.
In that first moment, as the door opened, he sensed something very
wrong .... The room was darkened, and for a while he could sec nothing,
but at the first breath he scented a strange, unnamable odor, half sick-
C. L. MooRE ? 153
ening, half sweet. And deep stirrings of ancestral memory awoke within
him-ancient swamp-born memories from Venusian ancestors far away
and long ago ....
Yarol laid his hand on his gun, lightly, and opened the door wider. In
the dimness all he could see at first was a curious mound in the far
corner. ... Then his eyes grew accustomed to the dark, and he saw it
more clearly, a mound that somehow heaved and stirred within itself.
A mound of-he caught his breath sharply-a mound like a mass of
entrails, living, moving, writhing with an unspeakable aliveness. Then a
hot Venusian oath broke from h:is lips and he cleared the doorsill in a
swift stride, slammed the door and set his back against it, gun ready in
his hand, although his flesh crawled-for he knew ....
"Smith!" he said softly, in a voice thick with horror. "Northwest!"
The moving mass stirred-shuddered-sank back into crawling quiescence agam.
"Smith! Smith!" The Venusian's voice was gentle and insistent, and it
quivered a little with terror.
An impatient ripple went over the whole mass of aliveness in the corner.
It stirred again, reluctantly, and then tendril by writhing tendril, it began
to part itself and fall aside, and very slowly the brown of a spaceman's
leather appeared beneath it, all slimed and shining.
"Smith! Northwest!" Yarol's persistent whisper came again, urgently,
and with a dreamlike slowness the leather garments moved ... a man
sat up in the midst of the writhing worms, a man who once, long ago,
might have been Northwest Smith .. From head to foot he was slimy, from
the embrace of the crawling horror about him. His face was that of some
creature beyond humanity-dead-alive, fixed in a gray stare, and the look
of terrible ecstasy that overspread it seemed to come from somewhere far
within, a faint reflection from immeasurable distances beyond the flesh.
And as there is mystery and magic in the moonlight which is after all but
a reflection of the everyday sun, so in that gray face turned to the door
was a terror unnamable and sweet, a reflection of ecstasy beyond the
understanding of any who have known only earthly ecstasy themselves.
And as he sat there turning a blank, eyeless face to Yarol the red worms
writhed ceaselessly about him, very gently, with a soft, caressive motion
that never slacked.
"Smith ... come here! Smith ... get up ... Smith, Smith!" Yarol's
whisper hissed in the silence, commanding, urgent-but he made no move
to leave the door.
And with a dreadful slowness, like a man rising, Smith stood up in the
nest of slimy scarlet. He swayed drunkenly on his feet, and two or three
crimson tendrils came writhing up his legs to the knees and wound themselves there, supportingly, moving with a ceaseless caress that seemed to
give him some hidden strength, for he said then, without inflection, 
>,) ,,-;-(
1 54 '19'( SHAMBLEAU
"Go away. Go away. Leave me alone." And the dead ecstatic face
never changed.
"Smith!" Yarol's voice was desperate. "Smith, listen! Smith, can't you
hear me ?"
"Go away," the monotonous voice said. "Go away. Go away. Go-"
"Not unless you come too. Can't you hear ? Smith! Smith! I'll-"
He hushed in mid-phrase, and once more the ancestral prickle of racememory shivered down his back, for the scarlet mass was moving again,
violently, rising ....
Yarol pressed back against the door and gripped his gun, and the name
of a god he had forgotten years ago rose to his lips unbidden. For he
knew what was coming next, and the knowledge was more dreadful than
any ignorance could have been.
The red, writhing mass rose higher, and the tendrils parted and a human
face looked out-no, half human, with green cat-eyes that shone in the
dimness like lighted jewels, compellingly ....
Yarol breathed "Shar!" again, and flung up an arm across his face, and
the tingle of meeting that green gaze for even an instant went thrilling
through him perilously.
"Smith!" he called in despair. "Smith, can't you hear me ?"
"Go away," said that voice that was not Smith's. "Go away."
And somehow, although he dared not look, Yarol knew that the-the
other-had parted those worm-thick tresses and stood there in all the
human sweetness of the brown, curved woman's body, cloaked in living
horror. And he felt the eyes upon him, and something was crying insistently in his brain to lower that shielding arm .... He was lost-he knew
it, and the knowledge gave him that courage which comes from despair.
The voice in his brain was growing, swelling, deafening him with a roaring
command that all but swept him before it-command to lower that armto meet the eyes that opened upon darkness-to submit-and a promise,
murmurous and sweet and evil beyond words, of pleasure to come ....
But somehow he kept his head-somehow, dizzily, he was gripping his
gun in his upflung hand-somehow, incredibly, crossing the narrow room
with averted face, groping for Smith's shoulder. There was a moment of
blind fumbling in emptiness, and then he found it, and ripped the leather
that was slimy and dreadful and wet-and simultaneously he felt something loop gently about his ankle and a shock of repulsive pleasure went
through him, and then another coil, and another, wound about his
feet ....
Yarol set his teeth and gripped the shoulder hard, and his hand shuddered of itself, for the feel of that leather was slimy as the worms about
his ankles, and a faint tingle of obscene delight went through him from
the contact.
That caressive pressure on his legs was all he could feel, and the voice 
C. L. MooRE ? 155
in his brain drowned out all other sounds, and his body obeyed him
reluctantly-but somehow he gave one heave of tremendous effort and
swung Smith, stumbling, out of that nest of horror. The twining tendrils
ripped loose with a little sucking sound, and the whole mass quivered
and reached after, and then Yarol forgot his friend utterly and turned his
whole being to the hopeless task of freeing himself. For only a part of
him was fighting now-only a part of him struggled against the twining
obscenities, and in his innermost: brain the sweet, seductive murmur
sounded, and his body clamored to surrender. ...
"Sharf Shar y'danis ... Shar mor'la-rol-" prayed Yarol, gasping and
half unconscious that he spoke, boy's prayers that he had forgotten years
ago, and with his back half turned to the central mass he kicked desperately with his heavy boots at the reel, writhing worms a bout him. They
gave back before him, quivering and curling themselves out of reach, and
though he knew that more were reaching for his throat from behind, at
least he could go on struggling until he was forced to meet those eyes ....
He stamped and kicked and stamped again, and for one instant he was
free of the slimy grip as the bruised worms curled back from his heavy
feet, and he lurched away dizzily, sick with revulsion and despair as he
fought off the coils, and then he lifted his eyes and saw the cracked mirror
on the wall. Dimly in its reflection he could see the writhing scarlet horror
behind him, cat face peering out with its demure girl-smile, dreadfully
human, and all the red tendrils reaching after him. And remembrance of
something he had read long ago swept incongruously over him, and the
gasp of relief and hope that he gave shook for a moment the grip of the
command in his brain.
Without pausing for a breath he swung the gun over his shoulder, the
reflected barrel in line with the reflected horror in the mirror, and flicked
the catch.
In the mirror he saw its blue flame leap in a dazzling spate across the
dimness, full into the midst of that squirming, reaching mass behind him.
There was a hiss and a blaze and a high, thin scream of inhuman malice
and despair-the flame cut a wide arc and went out as the gun fell from
his hand, and Yarol pitched forward to the floor.
Northwest Smith opened his eyes to Martian sunlight steaming thinly
through the dingy window. Something wet and cold was slapping his face,
and the familiar fiery sting of segir-whisky burnt his throat.
"Smith!" Yarol's voice was saying from far away. "N. W.! Wake up,
damn you! Wake up!"
"I'm-awake," Smith managed to articulate thickly. "Wha's matter ?"
Then a cup-rim was thrust against his teeth and Yarol said irritably,
"Drink it, you fool!"
Smith swallowed obediently and more of the fire-hot segir flowed down
his grateful throat. It spread a warmth through his body that awakened 
156 ? S HAMBLEAU
him from the numbness that had gripped him until now, and helped a
little toward driving out the all-devouring weakness he was becoming
aware of slowly. He lay still for a few minutes while the warmth of the
whisky went through him, and memory sluggishly began to permeate his
brain with the spread of the segir. Nightmare memories ... sweet and
terrible ... memories of-
"God!" gasped Smith suddenly, and tried to sit up. Weakness smote
him like a blow, and for an instant the room wheeled as he fell back
against something firm and warm-Yarol's shoulder. The Venusian's arm
supported him while the room steadied, and after a while he twisted a
little and stared into the other's black gaze.
Yarol was holding him with one arm and finishing the mug of segir
himself, and the black eyes met his over the rim and crinkled into sudden
laughter, half hysterical after that terror that was passed.
"By Pharo/!" gasped Yarol, choking into his mug. "By Pharo!, N. W. !
I'm never gonna let you forget this! Next time you have to drag me out
of a mess I'll say-"
"Let it go," said Smith. "What's been going on? How-"
"Shambleau." Yarol's laughter died. "Shambleau! What were you doing
with a thing like that?"
"What was it?" Smith asked soberly.
"Mean to say you didn't know? But where'd you find it? How-"
"Suppose you tell me first what you know," said Smith firmly. "And
another swig of that segir, too, please. I need it."
"Can you hold the mug now? Feel better?"
"Yeah-some. I can hold it-thanks. Now go on."
"Well-I don't know just where to start. They call them Shambleau-"
"Good God, is there more than one?"
"It's a-a sort of race, I think, one of the very oldest. Where they come
from nobody knows. The name sounds a little French, doesn't it? But it
goes back beyond the start of history. There have always been
Shambleau."
"I never heard of 'em."
"Not many people have. And those who know don't care to talk about
it much."
"Well, half this town knows. I hadn't any idea what they were talking
about, then. And I still don't understand, but-"
"Yes, it happens like this, sometimes. They'll appear, and the news will
spread and the town will get together and hunt them down, and after
that-well, the story doesn't get around very far. It's too-too
unbelievable."
"But-my God, Yarol!-what was it? Where'd it come from? How-"
"Nobody knows just where they come from. Another planet-maybe
some undiscovered one. Some day Venus-I know there are some rather
awful legends of them handed down in our family-that's how I've heard 
C. L. MooRE ? 157
about it. And the minute I opened that door, awhile back-1-I think I
knew that smell. . . . "
"But-what are they?"
"God knows. Not human, though they have the human form. Or that
may be only an illusion ... or maybe I'm crazy. I don't know. They're
a species of the vampire-or maybe the vampire is a species of-of them.
Their normal form must be that-that mass, and in that form they draw
nourishment from the-I suppose the life-forces of men. And they take
some form-usually a woman form, I think, and key you up to the highest
pitch of emotion before they-begin. That's to work the life-force up to
intensity so it'll be easier. ... And they give, always, that horrible, foul
pleasure as they-feed. There are some men who, if they survive the first
experience, take to it like a drug--can't give it up-keep the thing with
them all their lives-which isn't long-feeding it for that ghastly satisfaction. Worse than smoking ming or-·or 'praying to Pharo!. ' "
"Yes," said Smith. "I'm beginning to understand why that crowd was
so surprised and-and disgusted when I said-well, never mind. Go on."
"Did you get to talk to-to it?" asked Yarol.
"I tried to. It couldn't speak very well. l asked it where it came from
and it said-'from far away and long ago'-something like that."
"I wonder. Possibly some unknown planet-but I think not. You
know there are so many wild stories with some basis of fact to start
from, that I've sometimes wondered-mightn't there be a lot more of
even worse and wilder superstitions we've never even heard of? Things
like this, blasphemous and foul, that those who know have to keep
still about? Awful, fantastic things running around loose that we never
hear rumors of at all !
"These things-they've been in existence for countless ages. No one
knows when or where they first appeared. Those who've seen them, as
we saw this one, don't talk about it. It's j ust one of those vague, misty
rumors you find half hinted at in old books sometimes .... I believe they
are an older race than man, spawned from ancient seed in times before
ours, perhaps on planets that have gone to dust, and so horrible to man
that when they are discovered the discoverers keep still about it-forget
them again as quickly as they can.
"And they go back to time immemorial. I suppose you recognized the
legend of Medusa? There isn't any question that the ancient Greeks knew
of them. Does it mean that there have been civilizations before yours that:
set out from Earth and explored other planets? Or did one of the Shambleau somehow make its way into Greece three thousand years ago? If
you think about it long enough you'll go off your head! I wonder how
many other legends are based on things like this-things we don't suspect,
things we'll never know.
"The Gorgon, Medusa, a beautiful woman with-with snakes for hair,
and a gaze that turned men to stone, and Perseus finally killed her-1 
158
remember this j ust by accident, N. W., and it saved your life and minePerseus killed her by using a mirror as he fought to reflect what he dared
not look at directly. I wonder what the old Greek who first started that
legend would have thought if he'd known that three thousand years later
his story would save the lives of two men on another planet. I wonder
what that Greek's own story was, and how he met the thing, and what
happened ....
"Well, there's a lot we'll never know. Wouldn't the records of that race
of-of things, whatever they are, be worth reading! Records of other
planets and other ages and all the beginnings of mankind! But I don't
suppose they've kept any records. I don't suppose they've even any place
to keep them-from what little I know, or anyone knows about it, they're
like the Wandering Jew, just bobbing up here and there at long intervals,
and where they stay in the meantime I'd give my eyes to know! But I don't
believe that terribly hypnotic power they have indicates any superhuman
intelligence. It's their means of getting food-just like a frog's long tongue
or a carnivorous flower's odor. Those are physical because the frog and
the flower eat physical food. The Shambleau uses a-a mental reach to
get mental food. I don't quite know how to put it. And just as a beast
that eats the bodies of other animals acquires with each meal greater
power over the bodies of the rest, so the Shambleau, stoking itself up
with the life-forces of men, increases its power over the minds and the
souls of other men. But I'm talking about things I can't define-things
I'm not sure exist.
"I only know that when I felt-when those tentacles closed around my
legs-I didn't want to pull loose, I felt sensations that-that-oh, I'm
fouled and filthy to the very deepest part of me by that-pleasure-and
yet-"
"I know," said Smith slowly. The effect of the segir was beginning to
wear off, and weakness was washing back over him in waves, and when
he spoke he was half meditating in a low voice, scarcely realizing that
Yarol listened. "I know it-much better than you do-and there's something so indescribably awful that the thing emanates, something so utterly
at odds with everything human-there aren't any words to say it. For a
while I was a part of it, literally, sharing its thoughts and memories and
emotions and hungers, and-well, it's over now and I don't remember
very clearly, but the only part left free was that part of me that was but
insane from the-the obscenity of the thing. And yet it was a pleasure so
sweet-! think there must be some nucleus of utter evil in me-in everyone-that needs only the proper stimulus to get complete control; because
even while I was sick all through from the touch of those-things-there
was something in me that was-was simply gibbering with delight ....
Because of that I saw things-and knew things-horrible, wild things I
can't quite remember-visited unbelievable places, looked backward 
C. L. MooRE ? 159
through the memory of that-creature-! was one with, and saw-God,
I wish I could remember!"
"You ought to thank your God you can't," said Yarol soberly.
His voice roused Smith from the half-trance he had fallen into, and he
rose on his elbow, swaying a little from weakness. The room was wavering
before him, and he closed his eyes, not to see it, but he asked, "You say
they-they don't turn up again? No way of finding-another?"
Yarol did not answer for a moment. He laid his hands on the other
man's shoulders and pressed him back, and then sat staring down into
the dark, ravaged face with a new, strange, undefinable look upon it that
he had never seen there before-whose meaning he knew, too well.
"Smith," he said finally, and his black eyes for once were steady and
serious, and the little grinning devil had vanished from behind them,
"Smith, I've never asked your word on anything before, but I've-I've
earned the right to do it now, and I'm asking you to promise me one
thing."
Smith's colorless eyes met the black gaze unsteadily. Irresolution was
in them, and a little fear of what that promise might be. And for just a
moment Yarol was looking, not into his friend's familiar eyes, but into a
wide gray blankness that held all horror and delight-a pale sea with
unspeakable pleasures sunk beneath it. Then the wide stare focused again
and Smith's eyes met his squarely and Smith's voice said, "Go ahead.
I'll promise."
"That if you ever should meet a Shambleau again-ever, anywhere-­
you'll draw your gun and burn it to hell the instant you realize what it
is. Will you promise me that?"
There was a long silence. Yarol's somber eyes bored relentlessly into
the colorless ones of Smith, not wavering. And the veins stood out on
Smith's tanned forehead. He never broke his word-he had given it perhaps half a dozen times in his life, but once he had given it, he was
incapable of breaking it. And onc(: more the gray seas flooded in a dim
tide of memories, sweet and horrible beyond dreams. Once more Yarol
was staring into blankness that hid nameless things. The room was very
still.
The gray tide ebbed. Smith's eyes, pale and resolute as steel, met Yarol's levelly.
''I'll-try," he said. And his voice wavered. 
WHITLEY STRIEBER
(b. 1945)
A native Texan, Whitley Strieber was born in Texas and attended the
University of Texas. He spent a decade in the advertising business before
turning his attention to writing.
Strieber wrote The Wolfen (1 980) and The Hunger (1 981)-both of
which were made into movies-in which the protagonists encounter a
highly evolved form of wolf culling the weak inhabitants of Manhattan.
His other works include Black Magic (1 982), Catmagic (1 986), The Wild
(1 991), and The Forbidden Zone (1 993). He is perhaps most known for
Communion: A True Story (1 987) and Transformation: The Breakthrough
(1 988), in which he detailed the supposedly true account of his abduction
by aliens.
The Hunger is written in a comparatively restrained style. Strieber,
whose temptation as a writer is to be facile, shows here that he can be a
sensitively acute observer of human behavior.
The story is set in contemporary New York City, where a couple
named Blaylock live in a large East Side house. Miriam Blaylock is the
authentic vampire (although the word "vampire" does not appear in
Strieber's novel), doomed to immortality. Her lovers all lead extended but
not eternal lives; they live for two hundred years and then rapidly age
and die within a few days, like her last companion, John.
Miriam has since made love to Dr. Sarah Roberts and introduced her
to blood drinking. Soon, Sarah will be transformed into this new species
of being with a two-hundred-year life span. What is notable about this
particular chapter in the book is that Strieber is as explicit as Joyce Carol
Oates in the excerpt from Bellefleur; both elaborate the erotic power of
the vampiric embrace. In Strieber's narrative, human lovemaking is juxtaposed with the satiation of vampiric hunger. The temptation of the blood
drinker is described with the same agonizing terms used by drug addicts
desperate for a fix. 
Excerpt from
THE HUNGER
"0 pen up!" Tom pounded on the front door. He hadn't expected to be ignored. All the more it confirmed to him that Sarah was in
there and his presence was not appreciated. "I'll kick this damn door in!"
His voice echoed up and down the street but he didn't care. Let somebody
call the police. He would welcome the help. He stepped back and gave
the door a hard kick-and almost fell into the hallway. The door had
opened on its own.
The entrance gaped black. A whispering sound abruptly stopped. Tom
could see somebody back in the shadows, crouching low. "I want to see
Sarah Roberts," he said as he strode across the threshold. He had intended
to leave the door open to get some light from the street, but it closed as
soon as he was inside. The smoothness of its motion and the decisive
chunk of the lock made him suspect that it was being controlled from
elsewhere in the house. "All right, Miriam, enough is enough!" He flailed,
seeking the wall, then began to slide his hands along its smooth surface
trying to find a light. He pressed an old-fashioned button switch but no
lights came on. "Oh, for God's sake!"
The whispering began again, closer this time. He recoiled. There was
something awful about it, something avid. He pressed back against the
front door. The handle would not turn. "Get away from me!" He kicked,
met air. The whispering grew louder and louder, becoming a frenetic
chatter. It was not a voice at all but rather the sound of movements, as
if a swarm of insects were crawling down the hallway.
Tom twisted the handle of the door, threw his weight against it, hammered on it. It might look like wood but it felt like steel.
To his left was an archway leading into a living room.
Windows.
He stepped forward. Something came around his right ankle. He yanked
his leg free but now it attached itself to the other ankle. He stamped his
feet but it was no use. Both ankles were grasped. "Sarah!" The pressure
became pain, searing, excruciating, forcing him to his knees. He clawed
the darkness before him, grabbed toward his agonized ankles, and fell
forward into a tangled, ropy mass. His legs kicked, his arms flailed. Every
movement seemed to entangle him further with whatever it was. Thin
fingers groped in his hair, slipped around his neck. He screamed and
screamed, pulling at the ropy substance as best he could. A fingernail
popped into his cheek and cut through all the way down to his chin. The 
162 ?
MJFJI THE HUNGER
pain made him bellow, but he managed to move so that it missed the
critical blood vessels behind the jaw. "Sarah!"
Tom's hands connected with something solid-a head. He pushed back
with all his might. There was a crackling sound and the fingers released
his hair. Again and again he smashed at the thing, feeling it break like
glass beneath his blows.
He pulled himself to his feet and lunged past it into the living room,
rolling across the floor, brushing the stinking dust it had left on him to
the floor.
His cheek, his ankles and his hands screamed in pain. He stared into
the darkness. Had he killed it?
What the hell was it?
"Sarah, it's me! Come back! You've got to get out of here!"
He saw the shadow of somebody standing at the far end of the room,
a tall, thin individual with a bobbing head. It did not look any more
human than the thing that attacked him had felt. Its outline was dim in
the light from the street.
He didn't understand at all what was happening in this place. Only
Sarah was here-somewhere. Every fiber of his body screamed at him to
j ump out a widow, to escape, to get away from whatever monstrous evil
had infected this houseBut Sarah was here.
"You! Where is she?" He took a step toward it. Another. Its head
stopped moving. Abruptly it dropped to the floor.
Another one appeared in a doorway that led into the rear part of the
house. He could see it marching like a man whose knee joints had been
fused. Then it too dropped to the floor.
The scrabbling sound began again.
"Sarah Roberts!"
The sound rose as the things crossed the floor. Tom's hand went to his
cheek, touching the open wound. In that instant he knew that he had to
leave this place. If they reached him again he was going to die.
To his left was a sun porch with French doors leading to a garden. He
stumbled toward the doors, grabbed the handle and jerked at it. Locked.
He didn't try to unlock the door, but took a chair and hurled it through.
He ran wildly across the garden, flailing in the shrubs, seeking some
kind of a fence. At last he came to the edge of the property and climbed
the brick wall he found there, cutting his fingers deeply on the shards of
glass embedded in the top.
Atop the wall he paused, looked back at the house. There were no
lights. Not far behind him the shrubbery was waving madly as something
struggled through it.
He j umped six feet to the sidewalk.
Back in the world again. A woman walked toward him leading a dachshund. He brushed past her to the corner and hailed a cab. 
WHITLEY STRIEBER ?
"Riverside emergency," he gasped out.
"You bet."
1 6 3
They stitched him in the brightly lit emergency room and bandaged his
hands. He told them a window had fallen out at his apartment.
What had actually happened he did not know. Perhaps it had been real,
perhaps some kind of complex illusion designed to frighten him away.
He had them call over some detf:ctives from the Twenty-third Precinct.
Half an hour later he met them in his office.
"So you want us to go to this house and get out your girl friend?"
"That's right, officer. I have every reason to believe she's there against
her will."
"Kidnapped?"
"Psychically kidnapped. Influenced."
"It doesn't sound like a crime. She's not under age-"
"Of course not! You're telling me I can't get help."
"Doctor Haver, you haven't reported a crime."
He let them leave. When the door closed he could contain himself no
longer. In his defeat and loss he wept, muffling his face in his hands to
deaden the sound.
Sarah had been at peace until she heard somebody call her name.
Tom?
She was drifting on the softest of waters, in the moonlit sea ...
He screamed.
She opened her eyes. In her mind was a vivid image of Tom. "I love
you." The screams pealed again and again, so frantic that Sarah had
clapped her hands over her ears.
Abruptly it was over. After a moment Miriam's voice drifted through
the door. "It's all right," the voice said, "sleep now."
"Thank you," she replied. But she thought, 'please don't let him be
dead.' She had to go to him. For that she somehow had to get out of this
bed. She swayed when she sat up, shook when she put her feet on the
floor, had to grab the bedpost for support when she tried to move.
Helpless, almost overcome with sleep, she sank to the floor.
She laid her head down, wishing she had never left the bed. It was so cold!
Her eyes opened, she tried to gather enough energy to pull herself back up.
It was some time before she realized that she was staring into a face.
Somebody was lying under the bed, still and silent. Sarah sighed, all that
escaped of a scream.
It was not a peaceful face, but a sad one.
So this was Miriam's "food." Sarah gagged with the memory of it. And
yet it sang in her veins. Slowly she extended her hand. Her own eyes
closing as if she were under the influence of some opiate, she stroked the
forehead of the person whose life she had taken.
She Slept. 
1 6 4 @i0))
MJ¥JI THE HUNGER
>> >>
Miriam moved about the house struggling with her failures. The body of
Tom Haver was nowhere to be found. She was not really surprised at his
escape. His attackers were fierce but they had little real strength. Poor
man. All his survival had gained him was a harder death. He could not
be allowed to survive, not with what he now knew. If she was clever, his
death could be arranged in such a way that it served a purpose.
She followed a trail of broken plants to the garden wall. There was
Eumenes, arms outstretched, mouth lolling open, lusting toward food he
could never swallow. Astonishingly repulsive.
She remembered lying with her head in his lap on the slopes of
Hymettus.
She returned them all to their resting places, forcing their remains into
the chests. At last there was John, slumped against the wall of the attic.
She picked him up, holding the wrists together with one hand, carrying
him with the other. "I know you can hear me, my love," she said as she
placed him in his container. "I'll make you the same promise I made the
others. Listen well, because you must hold this in your memory forever.
John, I will keep you beside me until time itself comes to an end. I will
neither abandon nor forget you. I will never stop loving you."
She pressed him down into his steel tomb until his knees were against
his chest and slid the cover closed. Weeping, she spun the bolts one by
one.
Tom lay in their bed alone. Each time he had dropped off, shouting terrors
had jolted him back awake. His face was a dull haze of throbbing pain,
his left eye was swollen closed.
He kept trying to understand what had happened to him. No matter
how he worked it out, however, there just wasn't a satisfactory
explanation.
He thought of Sarah and cried aloud. She was in the hands of a monster. It was as simple as that. Perhaps science would never explain such
things, perhaps it couldn't.
And yet Miriam was real, living in the real world, right now. Her life
mocked the laws of nature, at least as Tom understood them.
Slowly, the first shaft of sunlight spread across the wall. Tom imagined
the earth, a little green mote of dust sailing around the sun, lost in the
enormous darkness. The universe seemed a cold place indeed, malignant
and secret.
Was that the truth of it?
Something tickled his unwounded cheek. Tears again. He threw back
the covers and got out of bed. All at once he froze. This room was the
only one with any sunlight in it. The rest of the apartment was still dark.
He was frozen with terror. He could not move from the place where
he stood. 
),) .. ?
WHITLEY STRIEBER \l9 'C 1 6 5
It came at him shrieking, tearing with its long knives of fingernails, its
. .
Jaws snappmgAnd was gone.
He shook his head, went to the bathroom, splashed his chest and neck
with cold water. He must not let the image of that thing creep into his
mind again. It was not outside the realm of possibility to be driven catatonic by fear. That had to be guarded against if there was to be any hope
left at all.
He looked like hell. One eye was an angry purple mass of flesh. The
other was black. He badly needed a shave but the bandages were going
to get in the way.
Suddenly, the sound of the intercom broke into his thoughts. How long
had it been buzzing? Turning on lights as he went, he moved to the foyer
and answered it.
Three minutes later Geoff and Phyllis stood at the door. They had food
and coffee and the didn't buy any stories about broken windows. They
wanted to know what Miriam had clone with Sarah.
Miriam stood beside the bed watching Sarah, waiting for her to wake up.
The transformation was working well. Miriam touched Sarah's cheek,
feeling the cool dryness of the skin. That was another good sign.
It was a happy moment.
The only barrier left to complete transformation was the emotional one.
Loyalty was, as always, the issue. Sarah must be made to realize the truth
of her situation. She now belonged to a new species and must leave the
values of the old behind.
Miriam turned her thoughts to Tom Haver. She could see a good way to
use him to further Sarah's change of allegiance. He would be the medium.
A slight variation in Sarah's breathing pattern alerted Miriam to the
fact that the Sleep was about to end. Very well. When Sarah awoke, she
would find love waiting for her.
An ugly dream receded. Sarah opened her eyes. The thing looming over
the bed startled her for an instant. Miriam, of course. Her eyes were
glaring, the stare avid. Sarah's impulse was to run.
She thought of the body under the bed, the dead skin dull and dry.
"Don't," Miriam said. "You can't change the past."
"You're a murderer!"
Miriam sat on the edge of the bed. It made Sarah shudder when Miriam
stroked her face, but she was afraid to turn away. As a child in Savannah
she had captured a baby rabbit. She remembered how it had huddled so
quietly in her hand, and she had thought, 'I've tamed it with my touch.'
But it wasn't tame at all, it was in a rapture of fear. She had cuddled it
to her face and, giving it a friendly snuffle, found that it was dead. 
?'?) 1.?
1)\J 't 166 THE HUNGER
Sarah almost wished something similar would happen to her. But it did
not. Instead she remembered last night. "Tom-"
"He's quite well."
"I've got to call him!" Some of her old self was returning, it seemed,
as she recalled Tom's screams. "Where's the phone ?"
Miriam's expression was hard to read. She seemed at once angry and
curiously at peace. "I don't think you should phone him. Go to him
instead."
Sarah hid her amazement. She had assumed herself a prisoner. "Can I
go now?"
"Certainly. You're no prisoner."
At once Sarah got out of bed. She could stand up easily. The hunger,
the grogginess, were gone. Her body seemed unusually light and healthy.
The sense of physical well-being was remarkable.
Then the image of the dead girl swam into memory again. Her own
experiences crowded out all happiness. She remembered the blood hot in
her throat, the delicate sadness of her victim's face. She moved away from
the bed.
"The room is clean," Miriam said. "We remove evidence very quickly,
you'll find."
Sarah couldn't stand to hear it. She clapped her hands over her ears.
"You took a life. That's what you feel in you now. Her life. She was
a healthy young woman of about twenty-five, about your size and build.
She was wearing jeans and a brown sweat shirt when I captured her."
"Shut up!"
Sarah's heart had started pounding, her temples throbbing. She longed
somehow to expel what was in her. All she could do was escape. She ran
from the room, down the hallway toward the stairs.
Miriam's strong hand grabbed her shoulder, spun her around. "Get
dressed," she snapped. "You can't go out like that."
"I'm sorry."
"Your clothes are in the bedroom closet."
Sarah hesitated. She didn't want to go back in that bedroom. Miriam
pushed her. "Face it, Sarah. You killed. You." She pushed again. "And
you'll kill others. You'll keep killing." Another hard shove and Sarah
stumbled through the door. Miriam rushed past her, strode to the windows and swept back the heavy drapes.
Dawn was spreading up from the east, the red sun gleaming on the East
River, sending a spear of light across Miriam's garden. Such beauty hurt.
"You haven't got any reason to cry," Miriam said. "You should be
rejoicing."
"You said I could go." How small her voice sounded.
In answer Miriam swept her clothes out of the closet. Sarah threw them
on, thinking only of Tom and the salvation she would find in his arms.
In a few more minutes she was setting out into a magnificent spring 
\ )>.';\ ?2 WHITLEY STRIEBER '"' 1 6 7
morning. The door of the house swung shut behind her. As Sarah walked
down the street she was conscious of Miriam's face at the window of the
library. Only when she was able to turn a corner and get out of that line
of sight did she begin to feel free.
Never, as long as she lived, would she return to that house.
She was actually going back home. She felt all the delight of one who
escapes from an unjust imprisonment. She was going back to her place
as part of humanity. She was resurrected.
Tom shared as much of his tragedy as he dared with Charlie and Phyllis.
He could not tell them of the things he had seen. They might have thought
he was hallucinating, which would only confuse matters. Phyllis wept a
little when Tom told her that he did not know what had happened to
Sarah. She was Sarah's closest associate and a good friend, and she shared
some of Tom's anguish.
Tom didn't know if he would ever see Sarah again. He suspected she
might be dead. This black thought was in his mind when the lock clicked
and Sarah came in.
She burst in. Tom was astonished and glad, and yet somehow assaulted.
There was something about the total surprise of the arrival and the
quickness of her movements that made him want to retreat.
He refused to accept such a feeling. Her poor, small frame was shaking
with tearful joy and he was afraid of her. Or was it joy that moved her?
What was that look in her eyes?
"Sarah!" Phyllis' voice rang through the silence.
Sarah glared. Tom had never seen such an expression on her face before.
For a moment he was afraid she might strike Phyllis.
"Tom, please hold me!" She came toward him, then paused. He did
not understand her hesitation. Her expression became almost desperate.
"You're home now," was all he could think to say. "You made it
home." His emotions were beginning to overwhelm him. He wanted to
sob. Never again would he let her go. They circled one another, a slow
dance.
He recalled their past: lying on a beach in Florida, Sarah holding forth
on age vectors in the baking sun. He had laughed aloud at her intensity.
Sarah in her lab, her voice strident, the atmosphere charged with her
energy. Sarah in bed, loving.
As the shock of her arrival wore off she became more real to Tom. He
kissed her. Her mouth was sour and he drew back. Tears appeared in her
eyes. "I have a confession-"
"Not yet."
Her eyes widened. Her fingers came up to his bandages. "She hurt me,"
he said.
"Don't call her 'she.' Miriam isn't a 'she.' That's a human word.''
"What, then? Woman?" 
1 6 8 ?
?1:J¥JI THE HUNGER
"A female of another species. A woman is a human being. Miriam is
a mockery of humanity. Women stand for life. Miriam stands for death."
"You're pale," he said. He didn't want to pursue any conversations
about Miriam right now. Not until they both felt a lot better.
Phyllis and Charlie had drawn close, instinct making them seek the
comfort of the group. Tom could not blame them. He felt it too: something black and cold was in this room.
"I may look pale but I feel good," Sarah said. "I wish I didn't feel like
this." Tom detected more than a little desperation in her voice. He began
to wish Phyllis and Charlie would leave. He wanted Sarah alone.
"We didn't understand how dangerous she was," Phyllis said.
Sarah turned to her. "I failed, Phyl. You believed in me, but I failed."
She was starting to back away, as if their closeness disturbed her.
"We got a lot of data, Sarah."
"Not enough. You don't know the half of it. She didn't let you have
anything of real value."
Sarah kept backing away. Tom made a gesture to Phyllis and Charlie,
nodded toward the door. "Yes," Sarah said, "it's best if they leave."
"Sarah," Phyllis said, "I don't want you to think you failed."
"Please, Phyl."
"I'll go, but just don't think you've failed. It isn't over yet. Remember
that. We haven't even begun to work on that data."
"Yes, Phyl."
"I think you'd better cut it short," Tom said at last. Sarah looked as
if she were about to explode. When the door closed behind them at last,
Sarah took a ragged breath. She was now on the far side of the room,
poised like a cornered animal.
Sarah had known from the moment she entered the apartment what Miriam had done to her. Another trick.
They smelled so good.
She wanted to handle them, to caress their warm, moist skin, to draw
them close to her.
How accommodating Miriam had been. And why not, when she knew
what this was going to do to Sarah. She wanted to run ... and then
again she didn't. There was something very pleasing about them, about
Tom especially, the slow way he moved and the trust in his eyes. This
odd feeling isolated her fmm them, forced her into a kind of loneliness
she had never known before.
When the door closed behind Charlie and Phyllis, Sarah knew that Tom
was endangered. He should not be alone with her. Not when she was
like this.
She strove for control. "Stay on that side of the room," she said.
He looked across at her, a question in his eyes. The wall was directly
behind her. She could not get farther away from that wonderful scent. If 
WHITLEY STRIEBER ? 169
she opened her arms, called to him, he would come. She must not allow
herself to do that.
"Darling?"
"Tom, don't come any closer!"
"You're joking."
"I am not."
"Didn't you come here to be with me?"
There was such hurt in his tone. She wanted to go to him, but she did
not dare. He took a step closer. Her flesh crawled, but her arms came
up. Another Sarah, mean and evil, smiled, another voice welcomed him.
She could hear his pulse as he approached, hear the whisper of his breath,
the faint liquid sound as his lips parted.
"We had good times. Don't you remember ?" She did remember, as he
had no doubt intended she should. Sweaty hours banging away at one
another. Such innocence and pleasure.
"Tom, stop!"
Thank God it had finally come out. The shout stunned him. He stood
still, his smile fading. "Why?"
"Just do it. Don't come a step :nearer. Not one step!"
He bowed his head, remained motionless.
"Go into the bedroom and close the door. I made a major error coming
here. I've got to get out and I can't possibly make myself do it unless you
leave the room."
"What are you talking about?"
"Tom, I can't stand it much longer! Please just do as I say, even if you
don't understand."
"I think we ought to talk about it."
"No! Go away!"
He was moving closer again. In a moment she was going to open her
arms once more and this time she would not be able to stop.
Miriam called it hunger. A mild word.
"Please!" She cast her eyes down, felt her muscles tensing for the kill.
Her body was preparing to spring at him. Hot, anguished tears poured
out of her eyes. Very softly, she made a last plea. "Don't touch me."
"You're serious. You're absolutely serious!"
She looked up at him. He was four feet away. She could not warn
him again.
"OK, I get the point. But why, Sarah?"
"Just do as I say. Do it now."
At last he began to move toward the bedroom. For a horrible moment
she thought she was following him, but she managed to go out the front
door instead. Her movements were sinuous and quick. She reminded herself of a rat questing through a maze. There was another person in her,
powerful and evil, and she was losing control.
The hallway was empty. That was a small miracle, and Sarah was 
1 7 0
grateful. She could smell them all around her, behind the doors of their
apartments. The moan of need that came out of her mouth was hardly
human.
Sarah knew where she had to go, where it was intended she go. There
was only one place that did not smell human, only one being who did
not tempt the hunger. Miriam had made her point. For Sarah the only
thing that now mattered was getting back to that house. Doing it through
the crowded Manhattan street was going to be hell. She clung to the
notion that she would not kill another human being.
As the elevator descended, she tried to prepare herself for her ordeal.
She had moved in the streets before, after all, and hadn't eaten at all the
last time. She remembered the man on the sidewalk whom she had nearly
killed, the apartment balcony she had climbed.
That was with the streets empty. Now they were going to be jampacked. 'I am a human being,' she thought. 'I will not harm my fellow
man.' With all the willpower left to her, she resolved to remain a human
being. The hunger she felt, after all, was not her own.
It belonged to the creature's blood. The need to kill was not her need,
it was Miriam's. She resolved to keep telling herself that. Then the elevator
doors opened and she saw Alex at his post. 'Miriam's hunger,' she repeated, 'not mine.'
She managed to slip past him, get through the front door and out onto
the sidewalk.
Madness. People everywhere, more even than she had imagined. She
made an involuntary lunge at a passing businessman, managed to dash
past him into the middle of the street. Brakes squealed, horns blared. A
cab swerved, slurred to a stop. The driver was cursing, the passenger
staring terrified from the backseat.
There was no time to waste, no opportunity to miss. She got in. "Whassamatter with you? I got a goddamn fare in here!"
"Emergency!"
"Call a cop, lady. You nearly got yourself run over. Now get outa
here."
"Somebody's about to die. I'm a doctor."
The driver rolled his eyes. "OK,'' he said, "where to?"
Sarah told him Miriam's address and opened the window. The fumes
from the street would perhaps mask some of the smells within the cab.
She listened as the driver reassured his passenger that all was well, the
detour wouldn't take long. Many drivers would have refused to budge,
she knew that. But she had gotten lucky. This guy had a heart.
As soon as the house appeared Sarah leaped from the cab, raced up
the steps and began hammering the knocker, pressing the buzzer, trying
the door.
She could feel Miriam standing j ust the other side of the door. "Please,'' 
WHITLEY STRIEBER \Jn:2 171
she said softly, "please open it." She did not want to shout. Attracting
the attention of the neighbors wa s dangerous.
After the longest thirty seconds of Sarah's life the door clicked and
swung open. She staggered in and slammed it shut behind her, on all the
bustle and beauty, and the hideous temptation, of the world of man.
Miriam knew at once that Sarah's will had proved stronger than her need.
She sighed with displeasure, let the poor thing into the house, waited for
the inevitable recriminations.
Sarah's hunger would eventually break her will, but until it did Miriam
would have to endure this annoying independence. She hardly heard Sarah's wails of anguish, her roaring anger, hardly felt the clawing and the
pummeling as she pulled the girl up the stairs and back into their
bedroom.
"I'll return when you're feeling more reasonable," she said. "Try to
calm yourself." There was little point in saying more. Sarah was stronger
than the others, a lot stronger. Too bad. It was going to make things that
much more difficult for her. She had a romantic vision of herself as the
great healer. A fool's vision. The world has forgotten that romance has
two aspects, that of love and that of death. Sarah didn't know it, but she
had moved to the side of death.
The walls of the apartment were closing in on Tom. He stood in the
foyer, his mind racked with indecision. He should follow Sarah, go back
to that house again.
But he could not. That pretty little house held nothing for him but
terror. Pink brickwork, window boxes, romantic white shutters, all
seemed evil and grotesque, like makeup smeared on some sneering face.
The screaming terrors of last night seemed to come close to him. His
hand touched the bandages on his face. Had they been demons? Were
such things real? His belief in science had evaporated. All the grand procession of knowledge now seemed nothing more than smugness and
Ignorance.
In the face of something such as Miriam had a man any power at all?
There was no place to turn. Prayer meant nothing to him. His childhood
prayers had gotten only silence in reply.
If that silence was sacred, he had not known it until now, and he felt
it was too late to challenge the rock of his disbelief. He could not turn
to God for strength.
There seemed nowhere to turn. He just didn't have the courage to break
the spell of Miriam. Or did he ? He imagined taking Sarah in his arms
and shouting out his love so loud it would penetrate to the depth of
her soul.
That love, that was truth.
That was his weapon. 
1 72 THE HUNGER
He took a step toward the door. One step, no more. He remembered
the look in Sarah's face as she had pleaded with him not to come near
her. "I love you, Sarah ! I love you!" His voice echoed. Sunlight spread
across the living room. He saw little clouds beyond the window, white
and fluffy. He screamed the scream of nightmare.
Miriam decided to wait a bit before telephoning the victim. It would be
best if he could get up the courage to come on his own. That way she
could let him force his way to Sarah, to succeed where he had failed last
night. It was doubtful, however. Human courage had its limits.
She went to the garden to pick flowers. It was a soothing pastime and
it would be best if the house appeared as cheerful and sweet as possible.
The windows must be opened, the curtains drawn back. There should be
music on the stereo, something soothing, perhaps Delius' Florida Suite,
or the overture from The Land of Smiles. Perhaps there should be some
fruit and wine set out. No, just wine. Fruit was too much trouble. She
didn't even know if they still sold natural fruit, it had been so long since
she had noticed.
Carefully avoiding even a glance at her destroyed rose arbor, Miriam
clipped until her basket was heavy with marigolds, snapdragons, iris, all
the wealth of her garden. She loved the exuberant life of the flowers.
Nature demanded nothing more of them than that they open each morning to the sun. Miriam's race was not so lucky. From her and her kind
much more was demanded. Not all that nature wants from its children
is innocent.
She carried the cut flowers onto the sun porch, laid them on the table
which contained the portrait of Lamia. She looked into her mother's eyes,
rendered by the artist as pale blue. Before the invention of contact lenses
and shaded glasses Miriam's species was marked as having the evil eye.
The artist had not wanted to offend his client by giving her eyes their
true color.
The portrait was a source of peace and reassurance to Miriam. The
eyes said to her, 'Go on, never stop. For me, be immortal.'
Tom had managed to get as far as Miriam's front door. The house stood
before him, the vortex of a deadly whirlpool. He was reminded of the
flowers that eat flies, using their nectar and their beauty as bait. Tom
hated most the beauty of the place. It should have foreboded somehow
of the danger within. Must Miriam always smile?
It was a sunny morning, the sky now clear blue. Before him the house
glowed in sunlight dappled through budding trees. The green shutters
were open. Behind them silk curtains billowed in the fresh breeze. He
heard music and saw shadowy movement in the living room.
For an instant he was ready to run, but the music seemed at odds with
danger. It was happy, rich music, the kind of thing he might have heard 
WHITLEY STRIEBER ? 1 73
drifting up from the bandshell on a summer night of his boyhood. He
supposed that he had been seen, and the music was meant to make him
feel just as he did.
He had imagined how life was going to be without Sarah, and had
wound up here, telling himself how he loved her. Still, it was going to be
hard to get to that front door to ring the bell. If anything the obvious
musical attempt to soothe him made him more uneasy than ever.
Either he go in that house now or face the fact that he would never
see Sarah again.
How desperately she needed him .. When somebody you loved has nowhere left to turn, you help. If there was such a thing as a human compact, that was part of it.
Sarah had to be gotten out of there and taken by force to Riverside.
And as for Miriam-she belonged in a specimen container.
A face appeared at a downstairs window. Miriam smiled at him.
In a moment she opened the front door. He mounted the steps and
went in. It was as simple as that. She stood before him, blond and beautiful, smelling of flowery old-fashioned perfume, her expression welcoming.
As the door closed she regarded him with concern. "I'm so glad you came.
I was j ust going to call you. Sarah needs help."
"I'm aware of that. I came to get her."
"I had hoped she would stay with you this morning. When she came
back I j ust didn't know what to do."
"I want to take her to Riverside."
"That would be best. Tom, I'm afraid I'm at my wit's end. Sarah's
reactions have been all wrong. I--1 never intended to harm her." The
gleam of a tear appeared in one eye. "Now she's up in that bedroom and
she won't unlock the door!"
"Upstairs? What room?"
"First door on the right at the head of the stairs."
"You lead the way." Tom had absolutely no intention of wandering
around this house on his own. Miriam walked ahead of him, down the
very hall where he had been attacked the night before. It was nothing but
beautiful now, with flowers on the tables and a cheerful coaching print
on one wall. The room's innocent appearance only intensified his caution.
Miriam seemed aware of his feeling, as if the act downstairs had been
little more than a formality. "Sarah," she said, "please let me in. I have
a surprise for you." She turned to Tom. "I've got a key, but I hate to
open a door somebody else has locked."
"Why don't I just bust it down," he said caustically.
She used her key.
It was the most beautiful room Tom had ever seen. The windows
opened across a magnificent garden. He could see thousands of flowers,
and there were more arrangem(:nts of cut flowers on the desk and
nightstands. There was something a little obscene about the profusion of 
1 7 4 ?THE H UNGER
flowers. They were a kind of overstatement for an innocence that did not
exist, and Tom was beginning to see them as the exact opposite of what
they were obviously intended to suggest. They seemed to confirm Miriam's guilt.
The breeze blew past gossamer pink curtains and sunlight poured in
the windows. Tom found himself estimating the distance to the ground,
and then saw in the garden something that chilled him. There was a path
of broken shrubs and upturned earth right across to the brick wall at the
garden's far edge. He could see from here the brown scuff marks his shoes
had left on the wall.
Sarah lay in a magnificent rosewood bed. She was not asleep, but in a
sort of trance-state. Her eyes followed him from beneath half-closed lids.
She looked languid, but he had the impression that she was far from it.
The eyes hardly blinked.
A fly came in the window, buzzing energetically. Tom watched it spiral
up to the ceiling. For a moment he was stunned. He had not noticed that
the ceiling was magnificently painted to resemble a blue, cloud-flecked
sky. Clouds billowed and larks soared in that magical, ineffably romantic
air. The fly, crawling across the painted birds and clouds, was the only
thing that disturbed the perfection of the illusion.
Sarah moaned. Tom went beside the bed. Gone were the protests he
had heard in the apartment. Her face, beaded with perspiration, became
almost sensual. Her eyes were dreamy, softened by desire. Her arms
opened wide. He bent close to her, kissed the tears that stained her cheeks.
The next thing he knew her arms had come around him and he was
lying beside her on the bed, drawing the delicate silk sheets away from
her body. She was more beautiful now than he had ever remembered her.
He was vaguely aware that Miriam had retreated to the hall and pulled
the door closed behind her. He feasted his eyes on Sarah's body. It was
smoother, softer. He touched her cool breast, felt the heart beating there
beneath the firm flesh. Only her eyes told him that she was conscious of
his touch. What turmoil was in those eyes. They looked. at once delighted,
avid with need, and as deeply troubled as any eyes he had ever seen. He
tried to comfort her with soft sounds, soothing caresses. This was what
he had longed to do at home. This was the truth of love. Surely this
would reach her.
Sarah was anguished. She could not even speak, much less cry out. Her
body screamed with silent need, her mind hummed with excuses and
justifications.
She had determined to lie here until she died. Then Tom had appeared.
She hoped at first that it was a hallucination. Then their eyes met and
she knew that he was real.
How could anyone be so foolish.
She hadn't the strength for both of them, not anymore. Every cell of 
WHITLEY STRIEBER ? 17 5
her being demanded action. This hunger was not the slow desperation of
starvation, it was something far worse. Where starvation was dreamy and
sad, this was quick and cunning and frantic.
'"Sarah, we can conquer this thing together."
He lay close to her, unendurablly close. She let her arms twine around
him. It felt so good to give in. So very good. "Yes," she said, "we'll do
it together."
His body was growing tense with passion. She noticed his eyes flick to
the door.
"Miriam won't bother us," she said. "This is exactly what she wants."
She ran her hands under his shirt. She knew j ust what Tom liked. Deep
within, a voice shrieked at her to warn him, to drive him away once
again. She purred and arched her back, offering herself to him.
She knew j ust how to excite him and he found himself responding to her
more passionately than ever before. The beauty of the surroundings, the
quiet, the warm sunlight combined to encourage him to forget the horrible
problems that were besetting them, to forget for just a few minutes. He
caressed her breasts, her thighs, sought her lips with his own. 'It'll help,'
he told himself, 'it's healthy and normal and positive.'
She unbuttoned his shirt, touched his nipples with her deft little hands.
Their delicacy had always delighted him, and he kissed them now. He felt
himself growing erect and guided the hands to his zipper.
"Yes, Tom," she said. She was smiling now. He burst out of his unzippered pants.
He hugged her. "We'll be free again," he said, "you'll see."
"Oh, Tom, I hope so!"
He entered her. Every tiniest move brought intense pleasure. This was
what they had needed. They should have trusted love more.
Tom closed his eyes, heard her whispering his name to the rhythm of
their movements. Her voice merged with the hypnotic buzzing of the fly
on the ceiling. He nuzzled close bt:hind her ear and buried his face in her
hair, where it was as soft as the fur of a rabbit.
A new feeling entered him, one that hurt like the contemplation of great
beauty. He held her to him, riding her.
With every bit of concentration remaining to her, Sarah tried to resist her
need. He lay atop her in his disheveled clothes, sweating out his passion.
Beads of perspiration glittered on his forehead. His cheeks were red, as if
he had been running.
She was emptied of hope.
Tom's passion rose. She loved him, she realized, as she might love a
child. His sexual significance, in the past few days, had dwindled to
nothing. 
1 76 ? MJJWI THE HUNGER
Bang-slap, his body went as it plunged against her. She felt his heat,
smelled his breath, tasted the salt of his hot flesh as she waited.
She knew perfectly well what Miriam wanted. And that she wasn't
going to do. She couldn't, even if she wanted to. Miriam had forgotten
one simple thing. There was no weapon in the room, and without one
she could not make Tom's blood flow.
She had almost called out to Miriam for one. But now she was sure
she wouldn't do that. Her suffering became a kind of hypnotism. She was
lost in it when a flash of light on her face made her open her eyes.
Miriam stood at the foot of the bed, holding up an object so bright it
dazzled Sarah.
Tom went on making love, his human senses oblivious to the silent
drama being enacted around him.
Miriam was closer now. The object in her hand was a gleaming knife.
A scalpel.
Miriam placed it on the bedside table and departed at once.
Sarah touched the sharpness of it with her fingers.
"Oh, Tom, Tom!"
"Sarah! I love you, love you! Oh, God!"
His pumping shook her. The scalpel dazzled m her hand. So light,
so strong.
His face, melting with love, gazed down into hers. She closed her eyes,
held her breath. 'No, I will not,' she thought, a chant within her. 'No no,
nono, no no.'
It came rolling up from the depths, the thing within her.
The scalpel belonged to it. Had always belonged to it.
No no no no.
This was her truth. She pushed it into him.
"SARAAAAAH!"
She took it out, shoved i t i n again. It whispered through his flesh and
all at once the purple miracle of his life was pouring into her.
Alive again. She heard a song that hurt like a memory. Somebody was
sobbing. She was sobbing.
Why? She was happy.
His head bobbed, his jaw went slack. To escape his collapsing weight
she wriggled out from under him, slipped from the bed. He shook horribly, huddling in the sheets. Blood spread. Then she touched him, bent to
him, made believe she was kissing him. She took his life out of him.
She twirled slowly around and around, her whole body rapturing with
a fine pleasure. She spread her arms in the warm air. The world had
become dream-golden, touched with every beauty she had ever known.
She could feel everything-the gentle movement of air past her body, the
slow warmth of the sun, the secret pumping of her own blood.
She could feel Tom.
Feel him! 
WHITLEY STRIEBER Jhl :z 1 7 7
Her eyes went to his dead body. Something extraordinary was happening. Emotions almost seemed to pour from him like some healing water:
sorrow, pity, peace.
Such peace.
She heard his voice in the air around her, saying her name in the rhythm
of their lovemaking. It got fainter and fainter. More than anything she
had ever wanted, she wanted the sound of that voice.
She was desolated. 
RICHARD MATHESON
(b. 1926)
Richard Matheson was born in Allendale, New jersey, and received his
degree in journalism from the University of Missouri School of Journalism
in 1 949. Matheson began his career primarily as a science fiction writer;
his first story, "Born of Man and Woman, " was published in The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction in 1 950. Since then, his work has
included horror stories, science fiction stories, novels, and screenplays.
Matheson was one of the first writers whose work was adapted for
film, marking him as one of the "liberators" of magazine-published science
fiction in the early 1 950s. He adapted his second science fiction novel,
The Shrinking Man (1 956), and sold it to Universal as a screenplay under
the title The Incredible Shrinking Man (1 957). Matheson's next major
venture was to write fourteen scripts for the TV series The Twilight Zone
in 1 959. He went on to have a very fruitful career in the film industry,
adapting scripts to the big screen for directors such as Roger Corman,
including The Fall of The House of Usher in 1 953.
The excerpt from I Am Legend included here is a nearly perfect model
of the science fiction vampire story. Matheson imagines that the plague
of vampirism decimating the earth is the result of a bacterial infection
which creates blood lust in its victims. Even the vampire's traditional
antipathy to garlic and to daylight are attributed to the infection. Robert
Neville, the narrator of the novel, is immune to the bacteria and becomes
the last non-vampire on Earth.
I Am Legend is widely regarded as one of the most original and
influential vampire novels of the this century. Filmed twice as both The
Last Man on Earth (1 964) and The Omega Man (1 971), it was the acknowledged but unofficial inspiration for George Romero's groundbreaking horror film, The Night of the Living Dead (1 968).
Over the course of his career, Matheson has won numerous awards,
including the Bram Stoker Award, the Edgar, the Spur, and the Writer's
Guild Award. He was the first author to be named a grand master by the
World Horror Convention. 
Excerpt from
I AM LEGEND - "1J,, ""ogth of tht vamp"' ;, that oo oot will hdim io
him."
Thank you, Dr. Van Helsing, he thought, putting down his copy of
"Dracula." He sat staring moodily at the bookcase, listening to Brahms'
second piano concerto, a whisky sour in his right hand, a cigarette between his lips.
It was true. The book was a hodgepodge of superstitions and soapopera cliches, but that line was true; no one had believed in them, and
how could they fight something they didn't even believe in?
That was what the situation had been. Something black and of the
night had come crawling out of the Middle Ages. Something with no
framework or credulity, something that had been consigned, fact and figure, to the pages of imaginative literature. Vampires were passe, Summers'
idylls or Stoker's melodramatics or a brief inclusion in the Britannica or
grist for the pulp writer's mill or raw material for the B-film factories. A
tenuous legend passed from century to century.
Well, it was true.
He took a sip from his drink and closed his eyes as the cold liquid
trickled down his throat and warmed his stomach. True, he thought, but
no one ever got the chance to know it. Oh, they knew it was something,
but it couldn't be that-not that. That was imagination, that was superstition, there was no such thing as that.
And, before science had caught up with the legend, the legend had
swallowed science and everything.
He hadn't found any doweling that day. He hadn't checked the generator. He hadn't cleaned up the pieces of mirror. He hadn't eaten supper;
he'd lost his appetite. That wasn''t hard. He lost it most of the time. He
couldn't do the things he'd done all afternoon and then come home to a
hearty meal. Not even after five months.
He thought of the eleven-no, the twelve children that afternoon, and
he finished his drink in two swalllows.
He blinked and the room wavered a little before him. You're getting
blotto, Father, he told himself. So what? he returned. Has anyone more
right?
He tossed the book across the room. Begone, Van Helsing and Mina
and Jonathan and blood-eyed Count and all! All figments, all driveling
extrapolations on a somber them,?. 
1 8 0 ?
?J }JJI I AM LEGEND
A coughing chuckle emptied itself from his throat. Outside, Ben Cartman called for him to come out. Be right out, Benny, he thought. Soon
as I get my tuxedo on.
He shuddered and gritted his teeth edges together. Be right out. Well,
why not? Why not go out? It was a sure way to be free of them.
Be one of them.
He chuckled at the simplicity of it, then shoved himself up and walked
crookedly to the bar. Why not? His mind plodded on. Why go through
all this complexity when a flung-open door and a few steps would end
at all?
For the life of him, he didn't know. There was, of course, the faint
possibility that others like him existed somewhere, trying to go on, hoping
that someday they would be among their own kind again. But how could
he ever find them if they weren't within a day's drive of his house?
He shrugged and poured more whisky in the glass; he'd given up the
use of jiggers months ago. Garlic on the windows and nets over the hothouse and burn the bodies and cart the rocks away and, fraction of an
inch by fraction of an inch, reduce their unholy numbers. Why kid himself? He'd never find anyone else.
His body dropped down heavily on the chair. Here we are, kiddies,
sitting like a bug in a rug, snugly, surrounded by a battalion of bloodsuckers who wish no more than to sip freely of my bonded, 1 00-proof
hemoglobin. Have a drink, men, this one's really on me.
His face twisted into an expression of raw, unqualified hatred. Bastards!
I'll kill every mother's son of you before I'll give in! His right hand closed
like a clamp and the glass shattered in his grip.
He looked down, dull-eyed, at the fragments on the floor, at the jagged
piece of glass still in his hand, at the whisky-diluted blood dripping off
his palm.
Wouldn't they like to get some of it, though? he thought. He started
up with a furious lurch and almost opened the door so he could wave
the hand in their faces and hear them howl.
Then he closed his eyes and a shudder ran through his body. Wise up,
buddy, he thought. Go bandage your goddamn hand.
He stumbled into the bathroom and washed his hand carefully, gasping
as he daubed iodine into the sliced-open flesh. Then he bandaged it clumsily, his broad chest rising and falling with jerky movements, sweat dripping from his forehead. I need a cigarette, he thought.
In the living room again, he changed Brahms for Bernstein and lit a
cigarette. What will I do if I ever run out of coffin nails? he wondered,
looking at the cigarette's blue trailing smoke. Well, there wasn't much
chance of that. He had about a thousand cartons in the closet of
Kathy' sHe clenched his teeth together. In the closet of the larder, the larder,
the larder. 
RICHARD M ATHESON ? 181
Kathy's room.
He sat staring with dead eyes at the mural while "The Age of Anxiety"
pulsed in his ears. Age of anxiety, he mused. You thought you had anxiety, Lenny boy. Lenny and Benny:: you two should meet. Composer, meet
corpse. Mamma, when I grow up I wanna be a wampir like Dada. Why,
bless you, hon, of course you shall.
The whisky gurgled into the glass. He grimaced a little at the pain in
his hand and shifted the bottle to his left hand.
He sat down and sipped. Let the jagged edge of sobriety be now dulled,
he thought. Let the crumby balan•:e of clear vision be expunged, but post
haste. I hate 'em.
Gradually the room shifted on its gyroscopic center and wove and undulated about his chair. A pleasant haze, fuzzy at the edges, took over sight.
He looked at the glass, at the record player. He let his head flop from
side to side. Outside, they prowled and muttered and waited.
Pore vampires, he thought, pore little cusses, pussy-footin' round my
house, so thirsty, so all forlorn.
A thought. He raised a forefinger that wavered before his eyes.
Friends, I come before you to discuss the vampire; a minority element
if there ever was one, and there was one.
But to concision: I will sketch out the basis for my thesis, which thesis
is this: Vampires are prejudiced against.
The keynote of minority prejudice is this: They are loathed because they
are feared. Thus ...
He made himself a drink. A long one.
At one time, the Dark and Middle Ages, to be succinct, the vampire's
power was great, the fear of him tremendous. He was anathema and still
remains anathema. Society hates him without ration.
But are his needs any more shocking than the needs of other animals
and men? Are his deeds more outrageous than the deeds of the parent
who drained the spirit from his child? The vampire may foster quickened heartbeats and levitated hair. But is he worse than the parent who
gave to society a neurotic child who became a politician? Is he worse
than the manufacturer who set up belated foundations with the money
he made by handing bombs and guns to suicidal nationalists? Is he
worse than the distiller who gave bastardized grain j uice to stultify
further the brains of those who, sober, were incapable of a progressive
thought? ( Nay, I apologize for this calumny; I nip the brew that feeds
me.) Is he worse, then, than the publisher who filled ubiquitous racks
with lust and death wishes? Really, now, search your soul, lovie-is
the vampire so bad?
All he does is drink blood.
Why, then, this unkind prejudice, this thoughtless bias? Why cannot
the vampire live where he chooses? Why must he seek out hiding places
where none can find him out? Why do you wish him destroyed? Ah, see, 
1 8 2 ?
?JDFJi I AM L EGEND
you have turned the poor guileless innocent into a haunted animal. He
has no means of support, no measures for proper education, he has not
the voting franchise. No wonder he is compelled to seek out a predatory
nocturnal existence.
Robert Neville grunted a surly grunt. Sure, sure, he thought, but would
you let your sister marry one ?
He shrugged. You got me there, buddy, you got me there.
The music ended. The needle scratched back and forth in the black
grooves. He sat there, feeling a chill creeping up his legs. That's what was
wrong with drinking too much. You became immune to drunken delights.
There was no solace in liquor. Before you got happy, you collapsed. Already the room was straightening out, the sounds outside were starting
to nibble at his eardrums.
"Come out, Neville!"
His throat moved and a shaking breath passed his lips. Come out. The
women were out there, their dresses open or taken off, their flesh waiting
for his touch, their lips waiting forMy blood, my blood!
As if it were someone else's hand, he watched his whitened fist rise up
slowly, shuddering, to drive down on his leg. The pain made him suck in
a breath of the house's stale air. Garlic. Everywhere the smell of garlic.
In his clothes and in the furniture and in his food and even in his drink.
Have a garlic and soda; his mind rattled out the attempted joke.
He lurched up and started pacing. What am I going to do now? Go
through the routine again? I'll save you the trouble. Reading-drinkingsoundproof-the-house-the women. The women, the lustful, bloodthirsty,
naked women flaunting their hot bodies at him. No, not hot.
A shuddering whine wrenched up through his chest and throat. Goddamn them, what were they waiting for? Did they think he was going to
come out and hand himself over?
Maybe I am, maybe I am. He actually found himself jerking off the
crossbar from the door. Coming, girls, I'm coming. Wet your lips, now.
Outside, they heard the bar being lifted, and a howl of anticipation
sounded in the night.
Spinning, he drove his fists one after the other into the wall until he'd
cracked the plaster and broken his skin. Then he stood there trembling
helplessly, his teeth chattering.
After a while it passed. He put the bar back across the door and went
into the bedroom. He sank down on the bed and fell back on the pillow
with a groan. His left hand beat once, feebly, on the bedspread.
Oh, God, he thought, how long, how long?
The alarm never went off because he'd forgotten to set it. He slept soundly
and motionlessly, his body like cast iron. When he finally opened his eyes,
it was ten o'clock. 
RICHARD M ATHESON mw 183
With a disgusted muttering, he struggled up and dropped his legs over
the side of the bed. Instantly his head began throbbing as if his brains
were trying to force their way through his skull. Fine, he thought, a
hangover. That's all I need.
He pushed himself up with a groan and stumbled into the bathroom,
threw water in his face and splashed some over his head. No good, his
mind complained, no good. I still feel like hell. In the mirror his face was
gaunt, bearded, and very much like the face of a man in his forties. Love,
your magic spell is everywhere; inanely, the words flapped across his brain
like wet sheets in a wind.
He walked slowly into the living room and opened the front door. A
curse fell thickly from his lips at the sight of the woman crumpled across
the sidewalk. He started to tighten angrily, but it made his head throb
too much and he had to let it go. I'm sick, he thought.
The sky was gray and dead. Great! he thought. Another day stuck in
this boarded-up rat hole! He slammed the door viciously, then winced,
groaning, at the brain-stabbing noise. Outside, he heard the rest of the
mirror fall out and shatter on the porch cement. Oh, great! His lips contorted back into a white twist of flesh.
Two cups of burning black coffee only made his stomach feel worse.
He put down the cup and went into the living room. To hell with it, he
thought, I'll get drunk again.
But the liquor tasted like turpentine, and with a rasping snarl he flung
the glass against the wall and stood watching the liquor run down onto
the rug. Hell, I'm runnin' out of glasses. The thought irritated him while
breath struggled in through his nostrils and out again in faltering bursts.
He sank down on the couch and sat there, shaking his head slowly. It
was no use; they'd beaten him, the black bastards had beaten him.
That restless feeling again; the feeling as if he were expanding and the
house were contracting and any second now he'd go bursting through its
frame in an explosion of wood, plaster, and brick. He got up and moved
quickly to the door, his hands shaking.
On the lawn, he stood sucking in great lungfuls of the wet morning
air, his face turned away from the house he hated. But he hated the other
houses around there too, and he hated the pavement and the sidewalks
and the lawns and everything that was on Cimarron Street.
It kept building up. And suddenly he knew he had to get out of there.
Cloudy day or not, he had to get out of there.
He locked the front door, unlocked the garage, and dragged up the
thick door on its overhead hinges. He didn't bother putting down the
door. I'll be back soon, he thought. I'll just go away for a while.
He backed the station wagon quickly down the driveway, jerked it
around, and pressed down hard on the accelerator, heading for Compton
Boulevard. He didn't know where he was going.
He went around the corner doing forty and j umped that to sixty-five 
1 8 4 ?
?)9_\JJI I AM L EGEND
before he'd gone another block. The car leaped forward under his foot
and he kept the accelerator on the floor, forced down by a rigid leg. His
hands were like carved ice on the wheel and his face was the face of a
statue. At eighty-nine miles an hour, he shot down the lifeless, empty
boulevard, one roaring sound in the great stillness.
Things rank and gross in nature possess it merely, he thought as he walked
slowly across the cemetery lawn.
The grass was so high that the weight of it had bent it over and it
crunched under his heavy shoes as he walked. There was no sound but
that of his shoes and the now senseless singing of birds. Once I thought
they sang because everything was right with the world, Robert Neville
thought. I know now I was wrong. They sing because they're feebleminded.
He had raced six miles, the gas pedal pressed to the floor, before he'd
realized where he was going. It was strange the way his mind and body
had kept it secret from his consciousness. Consciously, he'd known only
that he was sick and depressed and had to get away from the house. He
didn't know he was going to visit Virginia.
But he'd driven there directly and as fast as he could. He'd parked at
the curb and entered through the rusted gate, and now his shoes were
pressing and crackling through the thick grass.
How long had it been since he'd come here? It must have been at least
a month. He wished he'd brought flowers, but then, he hadn't realized he
was coming here until he was almost at the gate.
His lips pressed together as an old sorrow held him again. Why couldn't
he have Kathy there too? Why had he followed so blindly, listening to
those fools who set up their stupid regulations during the plague? If only
she could be there, lying across from her mother.
Don't start that again, he ordered himself.
Drawing closer to the crypt, he stiffened as he noticed that the iron
door was slightly ajar. Oh, no, he thought. He broke into a run across
the wet grass. If they've been at her, I'll burn down the city, he vowed. I
swear to God, I'll burn it to the ground if they've touched her.
He flung open the door and it clanged against the marble wall with a
hollow, echoing sound. His eyes moved quickly to the marble base on
which the sealed casket rested.
The tension sank; he drew in breath again. It was still there, untouched.
Then, as he started in, he saw the man lying in one corner of the crypt,
body curled up on the cold floor.
With a grunt of rage, Robert Neville rushed at the body, and, grabbing
the man's coat in taut fingers, he dragged him across the floor and flung
him violently out onto the grass. The body rolled onto its back, the white
face pointing at the sky.
Robert Neville went back into the crypt, chest rising and falling with 
RICHARD M ATHESON ? 1 85
harsh movements. Then he closed his eyes and stood with his palms resting on the cover of the casket.
I'm here, he thought. I'm back. Remember me.
He threw out the flowers he'd brought the time before and cleared
away the few leaves that had blown in because the door had been opened.
Then he sat down beside the casket and rested his forehead against its
cold metal side.
Silence held him in its cold and gentle hands.
If I could die now, he thought; peacefully, gently, without a tremor or
a crying out. If I could be with her. If I could believe I would be with her.
His fingers tightened slowly and his head sank forward on his chest.
Virginia. Take me where you are.
A tear, crystal, fell across his motionless hand ....
He had no idea how long he'd been there. After a while, though, even
the deepest sorrow faltered, even the most penetrating despair lost its
scalpel edge. The flagellant's curse, he thought, to grow inured even to
the whip.
He straightened up and stood. Still alive, he thought, heart beating
senselessly, veins running without point, bones and muscles and tissue all
alive and functioning, with no purpose at all.
A moment longer he stood looking down at the casket, then he turned
away with a sigh and left, closing the door behind him quietly so as not
to disturb her sleep.
He'd forgotten about the man. He almost tipped over him now, stepping aside with a muttered curse and starting past the body.
Then, abruptly, he turned back..
What's this? He looked down incredulously at the man. The man was
dead; really dead. But how could that be? The change had occurred so
quickly, yet already the man looked and smelled as though he'd been dead
for days.
His mind began churning with a sudden excitement. Something had
killed the vampire; something brutally effective. The heart had not been
touched, no garlic had been present, and yet ...
It came, seemingly, without effort. Of course-the daylight!
A bolt of self-accusation struck him. To know for five months that they
remained indoors by day and never once to make the connection! He
closed his eyes, appalled by his own stupidity.
The rays of the sun; the infrared and ultraviolet. It had to be them. But
why? Damn it, why didn't he know anything about the effects of sunlight
on the human system?
Another thought: That man had been one of the true vampires; the
living dead. Would sunlight have the same effect on those who were
still alive?
The first excitement he'd felt in months made him break into a run for
the station wagon. 
1 8 6 ?
?)_l)f\Jl I AM LEGEND
As the door slammed shut beside him, he wondered i f h e should have
taken away the dead man. Would the body attract others, would they
invade the crypt? No, they wouldn't go near the casket, anyway; it was
sealed with garlic. Besides, the man's blood was dead now, itAgain his thoughts broke off as he leaped to another conclusion. The
sun's rays must have done something to their blood!
Was it possible, then, that all things bore relations to the blood? The
garlic, the cross, the mirror, the stake, daylight, the earth some of them
slept in? He didn't see how, and yet ...
He had to do a lot of reading, a lot of research. It might be just the
thing he needed. He'd been planning for a long time to do it, but lately
it seemed as if he'd forgotten it altogether. Now this new idea started the
desire again.
He started the car and raced up the street, turning off into a residential
section and pulling up before the first house he came to.
He ran up the pathway to the front door, but it was locked and he
couldn't force it in. With an impatient growl, he ran to the next house.
The door was open and he ran to the stairs through the darkened living
room and j umped up the carpeted steps two at a time.
He found the woman in the bedroom. Without hesitation, he jerked
back the covers and grabbed her by the wrists. She grunted as her body
hit the floor, and he heard her making tiny sounds in her throat as he
dragged her into the hall and started down the stairs.
As he pulled her across the living room, she started to move.
Her hands closed over his wrists and her body began to twist and flop
on the rug. Her eyes were still closed, but she gasped and muttered and
her body kept trying to writhe out of his grip. Her dark nails dug into
his flesh. He tore out of her grasp with a snarl and dragged her the rest
of the way by her hair. Usually he felt a twinge when he realized that,
but for some affliction he didn't understand, these people were the same
as he. But now an experimental fervor had seized him and he could think
of nothing else.
Even so, he shuddered at the strangled sound of horror she made when
he threw her on the sidewalk outside.
She lay twisting helplessly on the sidewalk, hands opening and closing,
lips drawn back from red-spotted lips. Robert Neville watched her tensely.
His throat moved. It wouldn't last, the feeling of callous brutality. He
bit his lips as he watched her. All right, she's suffering, he argued with
himself, but she's one of them and she'd kill me gladly if she got the
chance. You've got to look at it that way, it's the only way. Teeth
clenched, he stood there and watched her die.
In a few minutes she stopped moving, stopped muttering, and her hands
uncurled slowly like white blossoms on the cement. Robert Neville
crouched down and felt for her heartbeat. There was none. Already her
flesh was growing cold. 
R ICHARD M ATHESON )Jft 18 7
He straightened up with a thin smile. It was true, then. He didn't need
the stakes. After all this time, he'd finally found a better method.
Then his breath caught. But how did he know the woman was really
dead? How could he know until sunset?
The thought filled him with a new, more restless anger. Why did each
question blight the answers before it?
He thought about it as he sat drinking a can of tomato juice taken
from the supermarket behind which he was parked.
How was he going to know? He couldn't very well stay with the woman
until sunset came.
Take her home with you, fool.
Again his eyes closed and he felt a shudder of irritation go through
him. He was missing all the obvious answers today. Now he'd have to
go all the way back and find her, and he wasn't even sure where the
house was.
He started the motor and pulled away from the parking lot, glancing
down at his watch. Three o'clock. Plenty of time to get back before they
came. He eased the gas pedal down and the station wagon pulled ahead
faster.
It took him about a half hour to relocate the house. The woman was
still in the same position on the sidewalk. Putting on his gloves, Neville
lowered the back gate of the station wagon and walked over to the
woman. As he walked, he noticed her figure. No, don't start that again,
for God's sake.
He dragged the woman back to the station wagon and tossed her in.
Then he closed the gate and took off his gloves. He held up the watch
and looked at it. Three o'clock. Plenty of time toHe jerked up the watch and held it against his ear, his heart suddenly
jumping.
The watch had stopped. 
LEsLIE RoY CARTER
(b. 1946)
Leslie Roy Carter was born in 1 946 in Washington, D.C. He followed in
his father's footsteps and became a naval officer in 1 971 after graduating
from The College of William and Mary in Virginia. With his family, he
lives in Annapolis, Maryland, while on active duty with the U.S. Navy.
Carter's published stories include "Carmen's Flight" in the Towers of
Darkover anthology (1 993) and "Final Class, " a vampire tale, in the magazine Vampire's Crypt (1 994).
In the fanciful tale that follows, we learn about two sorts of vampires.
There are the classical supernatural vampires who are a race apart from
humankind. The others are mutants who have been absorbed into the
larger culture, who "don't go around wearing capes and acting strangely. "
These "adapting" vampires live anonymously among ordinary mortals,
feeding moderately so as to avoid detection. The problem for these vampires is only too human: integration or segregation. The matter is finally
resolved, but the solution is awkward. 
VANISHING BREED
Carl Rhyner was reading when his window vibrated with a
soft thud. He ignored it, knowing what it meant, because at this moment
he did not want to be disturbed. With a plunge he seizes her neck in his
fang-like teeth-the window shuddered again, this time with such violence
that Carl was afraid the. glass would crack. He disgustedly put the book
down and walked across his apartment to the window. The lights of the
city, shining through the glass, distinctly outlined the dark object hovering
outside. Carl stared at it, dislike pouring from his eyes onto the giant bat.
"Go around!"
The bat skittered up and down the glass, its eyes burning red. Its mouth
opened and closed, and a faint screech came through the window. "No,
damn it, go around." The bat fluttered out into the lights of the city,
disappearing among the neon stars. As Carl turned away, his eye caught a
movement, and he hurled himself against the "raise" button. The window
snapped open j ust as the bat flashed through into the room. It settled on
the living room floor and folded its wings across its body. The wavering
mist flowed up from the ground, and Dr. Valpa stepped out.
Carl slammed his hand against the "lower" button and turned to his
guest. "Hell, I told you to go around. I'm tired of this stupid rigmarole.
If you keep coming in here like that, you'll give me away."
The good doctor scowled at Carl, displeasure written in the lines of his
thin lips. "My dear boy-for you are one, you know, lad-all vampires
come through windows."
"I don't," asserted Carl. "And furthermore, I don't come dressed in
those ridiculous clothes."
Dr. Valpa looked down at his long, flowing black cape, opening his
arms outward as if to present himself to an audience. "Enough-I knew
you would start on that theme again." Valpa lowered himself into the
easy chair, folding his cape behind him. He picked up the novel, turning
to the cover. "Varney the Vampyre! and you question my methods--­
really, Carl, how hypocritical." Carl's face flamed. Valpa cut short a laugh
and pointed. "There, there is the reason. What true vampire can blush
like that? You young mutants are all alike-dress modern, scorn the old
ways, run wild. Ah, in my youth-"
"Stop, Doctor. Your youth was a couple of thousand years ago. We,
the new vampires, must live in this world, in this time. We can't go
around wearing capes and acting strangely. We'd be picked up by the
proctors in minutes if we did."
"Sad, but true, lad." Dr. Valpa nodded his head at this point. "Even I 
1 9 0
>.:l ,,,,?
'i)_Q'C VANISHING B R EED
at the university must dress in the current fad in order to keep my job."
He looked up sharply at Carl. "But I still hold to the old ways when I
go on my rounds. At least you could do that."
Carl sat down opposite the old man and stared into his red eyes. "Dr.
Valpa, you don't understand, do you? You still don't grasp what's happening. You wouldn't last a second in the city. If I followed the old ways
of feeding, I'd be caught all too quickly. Here in the city, in this apartment
complex, I have over five hundred people on which I feed. I take a sip
here, a sip there-no one misses it, and if I overindulge a little, they
chalk it up to iron-poor blood. No one guesses, or even can believe that
I'm around."
Dr. Valpa sat back, his arms outstretched along the steep sides of the
chair. "Another point, dear boy. But how can you say you are a vampire ?"
Valpa stood up and began pacing up and down. "A vampire involves
himself with his prey; he lures it to him, seducing it with hypnotic trances
that wrap them both in a world of their own. He-"
"Nonsense." Carl propped his leg across his other knee.
Dr. Valpa stopped before the easy chair, stricken to the heart. He turned
slowly, his face paler than death. "Nonsense," he stuttered out. "Nonsense !" he roared.
"Nonsense," Carl repeated quietly. Valpa's mouth stood open, his eyes
wide and staring. "We don't need it. After all, being human, we can enjoy
the, ah-" Carl coughed into his hand, "say, better things of life."
Valpa stood rooted to the floor. His mouth slowly closed, and he
seemed to melt down into the chair. "Is this what we have become, bastards upon the human race, losing our own identity and becoming more
alien every day?" He lowered his head, bis eyes riveted to the floral pattern
on the tiles.
Carl stirred uneasily. "Doctor, what do you mean alien? I know you
and the other forefathers are dead come to life, but that makes you
human still ."
"No, Carl. You just don't really understand yourself. The true history
of our race has never been written." Dr. Valpa's eyes became blank, and
he seemed to sink into himself. His voice sounded as if he were speaking
in an empty auditorium. Hollow, deep, and quiet. "Didn't they teach you
anything when you were born?"
, Carl shook his head. He stared uncomfortably at the old man. "You
know, the usual-speed calculation, speed reading, computer technology-"
"No!" groaned Valpa. "Anything about being a vampire!"
"Well, no. Dr. Jamison, the psychologist attached to our coven, did try
to stress the fact that although we were vampires, we had our place in
society, that we were not truly deviants, misfits-"
"Curses upon him!" cried Dr. Valpa. "The old lure is lost. I told them
to beware of Jamison, he would ruin us!" Valpa was raging now. Carl 
1.)'1) •. -:-(
)\J r LESLIE RoY CARTER .- 191
was afraid and tried to quiet him. Valpa struck down Carl's hands and
grabbed his shoulders. "Didn't they teach you anything about history,
boy? Anything?"
Carl pried the clawlike hands away. "Yes, they did. The general atomic
wars feared in the '50s and '60s were averted, and the world turned
instead to peace. All races were declared equal, and thereby all men. Now,
in the twenty-second century, all people live their own lives as long as
they bother no one. Each of us has his place-"
"Unholy Powers," Dr. Valpa sighed. "Carl, tomorrow night a warden
will come to pick you up." His cape folded over his eyes as he sank down
into the floor. The monstrous bat cried shrilly and fluttered up from the
floor, striking the wall. The window opened, and the bat flitted out.
"Valpa, wait. Tell me-" Carl cried as the bat disappeared into the
night. The cool night air breathed across Carl's face, chilling the sweat
that streamed from his pores. He closed the window, and his reflection
stared back at him-stark, hard features. Eyes bleak and cold. His flesh
was firm upon his face. His teeth were even and white-no trace of
fangs-no need, since the use of hyper-fine needles left no marks. "Damn,
what did he mean?" Carl asked the still room.
The next night, around two, Carl was leaving on his evening rounds when
he again heard the sounds at the windowpane. He hurried over and
opened the window, through which a bat of large proportions flew. It
settled in the living room and transformed into a middle-aged man,
dressed in much the same attire as Dr. Valpa had worn. Only this man
was a warden. Carl knew him from his days in the school where he had
been instructed, along with the other young vampires, in the ways of men.
The wardens were to the human vampires what the proctors were to
society as a whole.
The tall vampire walked forward, his cape billowing out behind him.
He touched Carl's arm. "You are to come."
Carl leaped as if he had been struck.
The warden eyed him for several moments, then quietly spoke to him.
"You are summoned by the council. You must come."
Carl's ashen face convulsed into horror. "Valpa said so, but the council-the council has not been called for fifty years."
"I know." The warden turned and beckoned Carl to the window.
"I can't go that way, sir."
The warden grimaced. "I am not ignorant of your lacks. Come here
and observe the dark aircar on the taxi strip. You are to walk down and
board it immediately." As he spoke, he slowly vanished, and the bat flew
out the window, crying shrilly into the night.
Stepping into the car, Carl saw Steven and Maria Collins. Their faces,
like his own, were lined with worry. Maria cried out when she saw him,
"Carl, a council-a full council has been called. We are summoned." 
1 92 )l.'i) ?2
;_.. VANISHING B REED
Carl sat down beside Maria and put his hand in hers. "He j ust came
for me. I thought I had done something, maybe something I said to Dr.
Valpa-"
"Dr. Valpa-the prime leader!"
Carl looked sharply. "Prime leader-since when? He was j ust an adviser
when I heard last."
Steve shook his head. "He was levied into prime position last May. A
power play among the old ones put him in. There has been a shake-up
in the organization, and it looks like we are the cause of it."
"What do you mean, Steve-we? Do you mean us in particular-unlikely, since I have done little to cause trouble-or," here Carl hesitated,
afraid to say it, "or is it the human vamps as a whole?"
Maria's eyes, looking into his, were red, but from crying. "All of us,
Carl. We, the first group, and the last three groups they have created."
Carl sat gloomily in the car as it sped away from the city and into the
hills. Steve and Maria were also quiet, each locked in his own thoughts,
the idea that perhaps the experiment had failed.
The car turned into a deep valley and followed a steep, winding road
up the hillside until it carne to the house. One should say "castle," but
none existed in North America. The house was dark and foreboding, j ust
as Carl, Steve, and Maria remembered it as young vampires playing in
the surrounding hills. They always laughed at the antiquity of their elders
and the place they chose to live.
Inside they were numbered by the sheer size of the gathering of vampires
from all over the world. Great men and women they had only heard of
in tales were present. Each one indefinably old, but still outwardly young.
Bats whirled through the shadows under the vaulted ceiling. A dim flickering light was shed by a few antique candelabra, whose flames burned
blue.
Carl and his friends stood in the rear of the great hall, for they were
the last to arrive. No one really noticed them, because all eyes were fixed
on Lord Ruthven, who stood before them on the raised dais.
He stretched out his arms, and the murmur of voices stopped. Silence
filled the room as the earl's dead gray eyes searched over the gathering.
His lips moved slowly, as if talking were an impossibility for him. In a
dry voice, cracked and broken with ageless time, he whispered out over
the gathering. As the words fell upon their ranks, a shock of silence hit
the room. "The experiment has failed."
For a moment, an age, no one moved, talked, existed. For the true
vampires, a dream of the centuries had been destroyed. The dream that
had been fanned into being, nurtured, given hope and encouragementgone. And for the human vamps, disbelief and anger. Shame filled their
faces, and hatred filled the room. With the apathy and depression of their
elders, theirs passion increased, and a tumult broke loose in the rear.
The newer human vampires were pushing to the front. Shouts of, "Liar! 
LESLIE RoY CARTER \hl?2 1 9 3
Fabricator!" flooded the aisles. Carl stood up on a chair and shouted to
be heard.
"Vamps, hear me. These old fools want the experiment to fail. They
want us to believe that we cannot be human and still be vampires. They
are filled with the ages of mankind and are beginning to believe their
own legends."
Steve yelled affirmation, and the air vibrated with the noise of the
human vamps crying in the night. Then the screech of a great bat split
the air, and the vampires cowered to the floor. The earl stood tall on the
platform, his great wings overshadowing the stage. His mouth, sharpfanged and evil, gaped in anger.
"Fools-listen to me again. What is decided here will rule your lives
from now to eternity." Ruthven gestured to a figure standing in the crowd
near the stage. Meek it stood, beside Ruthven, a mere shadow of the
image of him, but Carl recognized the prime leader.
"Thank you, my good Earl, but I think after I explain to these young
hotheads why the experiment has failed, then they will cease this needless
disorder." An atmosphere of a classroom seemed to pervade over all as the
professor stood behind the podium and straightened his notes. He spoke.
"It seems a certain amount of history was deleted from our younger
friends' education, and lacking this, a grave misunderstanding has arisen.
I have found in many cases, such as Carl Rhyner's-" heads turned and
looked at Carl's flushed face-"a seeking of understanding and selfexplanation. The human vamps have been raised in our society, and they
truly do not know who they are."
Dr. Valpa shuffled his notes and allowed the murmuring to die down.
He glanced over his glasses at the rear of the room and noticed the look
of acknowledgment in Carl's eyes.
"Yes, they read the old human classics and find only the legends they
accuse us of portraying-though in reality the legends are true, and what
they read is really us. But they cannot identify with these legends, because
they are human and do not believe in what are called 'fantasies' in the
world. They are, however, truly vampires, in that they exist by feeding
on blood, but human, in that they can't fly, have no problem with mirrors,
eat garlic, etc., etc." Dr. Valpa waved his hands as if dismissing the traditional symptoms of vampirism. "Instead of questioning why vampires are
affected this way, they took their human 'souls' into hand and began to
live their lives in society as an integral part of it. They blended into the
background, became respected commoners, upheld the UN and hated the
perverts, all the time carrying on a heritage which they accepted as being
a norm for their particular subculture. Human vampires. Now this we
wanted, expected, ahem, prayed for. But-" His hand shot up, and the
index finger quivered over the crowd. Carl knew he would ball up his
hand and slam it down on the podium. Crash! "But, we did not expect 
1 94 )Tl ?2
;_. VANISHING B REED
them to become so human as to not realize their true heritage-that they
are, and we are, all of us are aliens to this world."
"Never!" shouted Carl. "I'm as human as anyone on this planet. I'm,
I'm-" Oh, my God, he's right. If the legends are true, he must be.
"Carl, all of you, we are aliens. We came over ten thousand years ago.
We were forced from our last home by the same thing which is facing us
now. We are parasites, Carl, pure and simple. We draw our existence
from human life. If we are discovered, openly and under the full light of
human understanding, we will be wiped out as cancer and heart disease
were in the twenty-first century. No human being can abide the thought
of a creature feeding on him. We would be hunted down and destroyed."
Valpa paced the stage, his eyes now not seeing the crowd. His hands
fluttered in the direction of Gilles de Rais and his group-the true vampires. "We would be the first to go. They have documented us pretty well.
They know all about our peculiarities, and once mankind really believed
in vampires, then we would quickly go. You," pointing to Carl, Valpa's
red eyes glimmered, "would be safe-for a while. But not long enough.
Medical checks would be made, impure blood diagnosed as vampire feeding, guards posted in sleeping areas, traps set. Oh, vampires of old, can
we ever forget the persecutions of our forefathers on the twilight world
of Antares Four !"
"That still doesn't explain, Doctor, why the experiment has failed." All
eyes turned to Carl.
Dr. Valpa watched Carl for a moment, then turned to the crowd. The
great hall waited for his reply. "They know we are here now. The experiment failed because one of the human vamps was analyzed by a psychproctor. The vamp talked freely about his entire life. He complained of
his feelings of non-belonging, his desire for acceptance. And he told the
proctor every detail, not knowing what reaction he would get from the
human. The vamp had been so humanized that he thought being a vampire was like being a homosexual, deviant but accepted and permitted.
We didn't expect the proctor to believe him, but he did, and he forced
the young man to reveal his adviser, Sir Romuald." Valpa's face turned
paler than ever. "Sir Romuald was terminated, while sleeping, with a
stake through his heart, and a real-time record of the execution stored in
permanent cybernetic memory."
A cry of agony poured from the true vampires. "It is come, then."
The starship, though ultramodern and wondrous to the humans, was tired
and old. It had been old long before its last trip, and it was even older
now. But its gleaming hull stood beckoning to the vampires as they filed
up from the valley and into the airlock. At the entry ramp Dr. Valpa
stood, checking the boarding list against the men and women and whirling
bats that thronged inside. Although busy, his eyes noted Carl's hesitant
approach up the ramp. He felt a twinge of expectancy of what the young 
LESLIE R oY C ARTER 'JD :2 1 9 5
man was going to say. As the last of the humans were coming aboard,
Valpa saw how Steven and Maria were gazing back at Carl, and he knew
for certain now.
Carl stood beside him, and together they watched Steve and Maria walk
into the vast cargo hold of the ship. Maria turned and waved, her small
face bright with tears, then disappeared. Dr. Valpa pulled his cape around
him, trying to ward off the chill wind blowing up from the valley. His
blood-red eyes gazed back down the winding road, out across the valley,
to the plasti-domed metropolis on the horizon.
"It was a good world, Carl. Good for our people. We watched it grow
from distant Greece to powerful UN. Our people have aided the Terrans
in many ways, most of which they will never know. Someday they may
feel indebtedness to us. Perhaps, Carl, you may have a hand in that."
"Doctor, I-" Carl stopped. Valpa's arm was around his shoulder, and
he felt, for the first time, a humanness, a warmth, coming from the old
vamp1re.
"I know, Carl. You can't go. You can't leave this world for anotherhowever near we can come to it in the universe. I know, because I too
wanted to stay on our last journey. I could almost do so now." The old
man shook his head sadly, the white curls floating in the chill night air.
"Funny as it seems, Carl, I liked being a professor. Always have. However,
I suppose I'll be a general or a medicine man or some other type on the
next world." Carl couldn't help smiling at the picture of Valpa striding
across the fields leading great hulking barbarians into battle.
"Then you will speak comfort to Maria for me, sir?"
Valpa nodded his head and turned to walk up the ramp. He still held
Carl close around the shoulders, hugging him to his side. Carl could smell
dank earth, a musty odor heavy in his nostrils, and he breathed deeply.
Valpa let him go with a shake of the head, as if he were flinging tears
from his eyes.
The door slid silently down before Carl, and he turned and raced down
the ramp. The ship lifted on its anti-gravs, turning ever so slightly, searching with its starnavs for the correct hole in space. As it winked out of
existence, Carl heard again the last: words that Valpa had spoken to him .
"We will all think of you, Carl, for you will be something special. For
us, for Earth, you will be all that remains of a legend." 
Suzy McKEE CHARNAS
(b. 1939)
Suzy McKee Charnas, born in New York City, was educated at Barnard
College and New York University. She was trained as a teacher and
worked as a Peace Corps volunteer in Nigeria. She is the author of several
novels, among them The Vampire Tapestry (1 980) which is composed of
five linked stories of varying lengths. One of these stories, "Unicorn Tapestry" (reprinted here), won a 1 980 Nebula Award. She recently published
another vampire novel, The Ruby Tear (1 997), under the pseudonym
Rebecca Brand, and has written additional vampire stories for such anthologies as A Whisper of Blood (1 991) and Under the Fang (1 991). A
werewolf story, "Boobs, " won a Hugo Award in 1 989.
Charnas's very modern vampire tale is certainly one of the finest written
in this century. In addition to providing a convincing scientific treatment
of vampirism, the novel, because of its prose rhythms, is delicate, rich,
complex, and emotionally satisfying.
Charnas's use of the unicorn invites speculation about her tale. In medieval folklore, unicorns were said to be attracted to young virgins. A hunter
would use a virgin as bait to attract a unicorn, which, when it had put
its head in the young woman's lap, was easily captured.
The medieval mind saw in the story of the unicorn a Christian allegory,
with the Virgin Mary as the maiden and the wounded unicorn as Christ.
In a story as richly and densely imagined as "Unicorn Tapestry, " it is,
perhaps, not reading too much into Charnas's story to assume that we
are reading an allegory of Christ. 
UNICORN TAPESTRY
" Hold on," Fiona said. "I know what you're going to say: I
agreed not to take any new clients for a while. But wait till I tell youyou're not going to believe this--first phone call, setting up an initial
appointment, he comes out with what his problem is: 'I seem to have
fallen victim to a delusion of being a vampire.' "
"Christ H. God!" cried Lucille delightedly. "Just like that, over the
telephone ?"
"When I recovered my aplomb, so to speak, I told him that I prefer to
wait with the details until our first meeting, which is tomorrow."
They were sitting on the tiny terrace outside the staff room of the clinic,
a converted town house on the upper West Side. Floria spent three days
a week here and the remaining two in her office on Central Park South
where she saw private clients like this new one. Lucille, always gratifyingly
responsive, was Floria's most valued professional friend. Clearly enchanted with Floria's news, she sat eagerly forward in her chair, eyes wide
behind Coke-bottle lenses.
She said, "Do you suppose he thinks he's a revivified corpse?"
Below, down at the end of the street, Floria could see two kids skidding
their skateboards near a man who wore a woolen cap and a heavy coat
despite the May warmth. He was l eaning against a wall. He had been
there when Floria had arrived at the clinic this morning. If corpses walked,
some, not nearly revivified enough, stood in plain view in New York.
"I'll have to think of a delicate way to ask," she said.
"How did he come to you, this 'vampire'?"
"He was working in an upstate college, teaching and doing research,
and all of a sudden he just disappeared-vanished, literally, without a
trace. A month later he turned up here in the city. The faculty dean at
the school knows me and sent him to see me."
Lucille gave her a sly look. "So you thought, ahah, do a little favor for
a friend, this looks classic and easy to transfer if need be: repressed intellectual blows stack and runs off with spacey chick, something like that."
"You know me too well," Floria said with a rueful smile.
"Huh," grunted Lucille. She sipped ginger ale from a chipped white
mug. "I don't take panicky middle-aged men anymore, they're too depressing. And you shouldn't be taking this one, intriguing as he sounds."
Here comes the lecture, Floria told herself.
Lucille got up. She was short, heavy, prone to wearing loose garments
that swung about her like ceremonial robes. As she paced, her hem
brushed at the flowers starting up in the planting boxes that rimmed the 
198 1?':) ',1 ')] 'C UNICORN T APESTRY
little terrace. "You know damn well this is j ust more overwork you're
loading on. Don't take this guy; refer him."
Floria sighed. "I know, I know. I promised everybody I'd slow down.
But you said it yourself just a minute ago-it looked like a simple favor.
So what do I get? Count Dracula, for God's sake ! Would you give that
up?"
Fishing around in one capacious pocket, Lucille brought out a dented
package of cigarettes and lit up, scowling. "You know, when you give
me advice I try to take it seriously. Joking aside, Floria, what am I supposed to say? I've listened to you moaning for months now, and I thought
we'd figured out that what you need is to shed some pressure, to start
saying no-and here you are insisting on a new case. You know what I
think: you're hiding in other people's problems from a lot of your own
stuff that you should be working on.
"Okay, okay, don't glare at me. Be pigheaded. Have you gotten rid of
Chubs, at least?" This was Floria's code name for a troublesome client
named Kenny whom she'd been trying to unload for some time.
Floria shook her head.
"What gives with you? It's weeks since you swore you'd dump him!
Trying to do everything for everybody is wearing you out. I bet you're
still dropping weight. Judging by the very unbecoming circles under your
eyes, sleeping isn't going too well, either. Still no dreams you can
remember?"
"Lucille, don't nag, I don't want to talk about my health."
"Well, what about his health-Dracula's? Did you suggest that he have
a physical before seeing you? There might be some physiological-"
"You're not going to be able to whisk him off to an M.D. and out of
my hands," Floria said wryly. "He told me on the phone that he wouldn't
consider either medication or hospitalization."
Involuntarily she glanced down at the end of the street. The woolencapped man had curled up on the sidewalk at the foot of the building,
sleeping or passed out or dead. The city was tottering with sickness. Compared with that wreck down there and others like him, how sick could
this "vampire" be, with his cultured baritone voice, his self-possessed
approach?
"And you won't consider handing him off to somebody else," Lucille
said.
"Well, not until I know a little more. Come on, Luce-wouldn't you
want at least to know what he looks like?"
Lucille stubbed out her cigarette against the low parapet. Down below
a policeman strolled along the street ticketing the parked cars. He didn't
even look at the man lying at the corner of the building. They watched
his progress without comment. Finally Lucille said, "Well, if you won't
drop Dracula, keep me posted on him, will you?"
,, 
S uzy M cK EE CHARNAS ? 1 9 9
He entered the office on the dot of the hour, a gaunt but graceful figure.
He was impressive. Wiry gray hair, worn short, emphasized the massiveness of his face with its long jaw, high cheekbones, and granite cheeks
grooved as if by winters of hard weather. His name, typed in caps on the
initial information sheet that Floria proceeded to fill out with him, was
Edward Lewis Weyland.
Crisply he told her about the background of the vampire incident, describing in caustic terms his life at Cayslin College: the pressures of collegial competition, interdepartmental squabbles, student indifference,
administrative bungling. History has limited use, she knew, since memory
distorts; still, if he felt most comfortable establishing the setting for his
illness, that was as good a way to start off as any.
At length his energy faltered. His angular body sank into a slump, his
voice became flat and tired as he haltingly worked up to the crucial event:
night work at the sleep lab, fantasies of blood-drinking as he watched the
youthful subjects of his dream research slumbering, finally an attempt to
act out the fantasy with a staff member at the college. He had been
repulsed; then panic had assailed him. Word would get out, he'd be fired,
blacklisted forever. He'd bolted. A nightmare period had followed-he
offered no details. When he had come to his senses he'd seen that just
what he feared, the ruin of his career, would come from his running away.
So he'd phoned the dean, and now here he was.
Throughout this recital she watched him diminish from the dignified
academic who had entered her office to a shamed and frightened man
hunched in his chair, his hands pulling fitfully at each other.
"What are your hands doing?" she said gently. He looked blank. She
repeated the question.
He looked down at his hands. '"Struggling," he said.
"With what?"
"The worst," he muttered. "I haven't told you the worst." She had
never grown hardened to this sort of transformation. His long lingers
busied themselves fiddling with a button on his jacket while he explained
painfully that the object of his "attack" at Cayslin had been a woman.
Not young but handsome and vital, she had first caught his attention
earlier in the year during a festschrift-an honorary seminar-for a retiring professor.
A picture emerged of an awkward Weyland, lifelong bachelor, seeking
this woman's warmth and suffering her refusal. Floria knew she should
bring him out of his past and into his here-and-now, but he was doing
so beautifully on his own that she was loath to interrupt.
"Did I tell you there was a rapist active on the campus at this time ?"
he said bitterly. "I borrowed a leaf from his book: I tried to take from
this woman, since she wouldn't give. I tried to take some of her blood."
He stared at the floor. "What does that mean-to take someone's blood?"
"What do you think it means?" 
(?') .";-(
200 JD ( U NICORN TAPES TRY
The button, pulled and twisted by his fretful fingers, came off. He put
it into his pocket, the impulse, she guessed, of a fastidious nature. "Her
energy," he murmured, "stolen to warm the aging scholar, the walking
corpse, the vampire-myself."
His silence, his downcast eyes, his bent shoulders, all signaled a man
brought to bay by a life crisis. Perhaps he was going to be the kind of
client therapists dream of and she needed so badly these days: a client
intelligent and sensitive enough, given the companionship of a professional
listener, to swiftly unravel his own mental tangles. Exhilarated by his
promising start, Floria restrained herself from trying to build on it too
soon . She made herself tolerate the silence, which lasted until he said
suddenly, "I notice that you make no notes as we speak. Do you record
these sessions on tape ?"
A hint of paranoia, she thought; not unusual. "Not without your
knowledge and consent, just as I won't send for your personnel file from
Cayslin without your knowledge and consent. I do, however, write notes
after each session as a guide to myself and in order to have a record in
case of any confusion about anything we do or say here. I can promise
you that I won't show my notes or speak of you by name to anyoneexcept Dean Sharpe at Cayslin, of course, and even then only as much as
is strictly necessary-without your written permission. Does that satisfy
you?"
"I apologize for my question," he said. "The ... incident has left
me ... very nervous; a condition that I hope to get over with your help."
The time was up. When he had gone, she stepped outside to check with
Hilda, the receptionist she shared with four other therapists here at the
Central Park South office. Hilda always sized up new clients in the waiting room.
Of this one she said, "Are you sure there's anything wrong with that
guy? I think I'm in love."
Waiting at the office for a group of clients to assemble Wednesday evening, Floria dashed off some notes on the "vampire."
Client described incident, background. No history of mental illness, no
previous experience of therapy. Personal history so ordinary you almost
don't notice how bare it is: only child of German immigrants, schooling
normal, field work in anthropology, academic posts leading to Cayslin
College professorship. Health good, finances adequate, occupation satisfactory, housing pleasant (though presently installed in a N.Y. hotel);
never married, no kids, no family, no religion, social life strictly jobrelated; leisure-says he likes to drive. Reaction to question about
drinking, but no signs of alcohol problems. Physically very smoothmoving for his age (over fifty) and height; catlike, alert. Some apparent
stiffness in the midsection-slight protective stoop-tightening up of 
S uzy McKEE C HARNAS ? 201
middle age? Paranoic defensiveness? Voice pleasant, faint accent (German-speaking childhood at home). Entering therapy condition of consideration for return to job.
What a relief: his situation looked workable with a minimum of strain
on herself. Now she could defend to Lucille her decision to do therapy
with the "vampire."
After all, Lucille was right. Floria did have problems of her own that
needed attention, primarily her anxiety and exhaustion since her mother's
death more than a year before. The breakup of Floria's marriage had
caused misery, but not this sort of endless depression. Intellectually the
problem was clear: with both her parents dead she was left exposed. No
one stood any longer between herself and the inevitability of her own
death. Knowing the source of her feelings didn't help: she couldn't seem
to mobilize the nerve to work on them.
The Wednesday group went badly again. Lisa lived once more her experiences in the European death camps and everyone cried. Floria wanted
to stop Lisa, turn her, extinguish the droning horror of her voice in illumination and release, but she couldn't see how to do it. She found nothing
in herself to offer except some clever ploy out of the professional bag of
tricks-dance your anger, have a dialog with yourself of those daysuseful techniques when they flowed organically as part of a living process
in which the therapist participated. But thinking out responses that should
have been intuitive wouldn't work. The group and its collective pain paralyzed her. She was a dancer without a choreographer, knowing all the
moves but unable to match them to the music these people made.
Rather than act with mechanical! clumsiness she held back, did nothing,
and suffered guilt. Oh God, the smart, experienced people in the group
must know how useless she was here.
Going home on the bus she thought about calling up one of the therapists who shared the downtown office. He had expressed an interest in
doing co-therapy with her under student observation. The Wednesday
group might respond well to that .. Suggest it to them next time? Having
a partner might take pressure off Floria and revitalize the group, and if
she felt she must withdraw he would be available to take over. Of course
he might take over anyway and walk off with some of her clients.
Oh boy, terrific, who's paranoid now? Wonderful way to think about
a good colleague. God, she hadn't even known she was considering chucking the group.
Had the new client, running from his "vampirism," exposed her own
impulse to retreat? This wouldn't be the first time that Floria had obtained
help from a client while attempting to give help. Her old supervisor,
Rigby, said that such mutual aid was the only true therapy-the rest was
fraud. What a perfectionist, old Rigby, and what a bunch of young idealists he'd turned out, all eager to save the world. 
202 ? \i).!J_IlJI UNICORN TAPESTRY
Eager, but not necessarily able. Jane Fennerman had once lived in the
world, and Floria had been incompetent to save her. Jane, an absent
member of tonight's group, was back in the safety of a locked ward,
hazily gliding on whatever tranquilizers they used there.
Why still mull over Jane? she asked herself severely, bracing against the
bus's lurching halt. Any client was entitled to drop out of therapy and
commit herself. Nor was this the first time that sort of thing had happened
in the course of Floria's career. Only this time she couldn't seem to shake
free of the resulting depression and guilt.
But how could she have helped Jane more? How could you offer reassurance that life was not as dreadful as Jane felt it to be, that her fears
were insubstantial, that each day was not a pit of pain and danger?
She was taking time during a client's canceled hour to work on notes for
the new book. The writing, an analysis of the vicissitudes of salaried
versus private practice, balked her at every turn. She longed for an interruption to distract her circling mind.
Hilda put through a call from Cayslin College. It was Doug Sharpe,
who had sent Dr. Weyland to her.
"Now that he's in your capable hands, I can tell people plainly that
he's on what we call 'compassionate leave' and make them swallow it."
Doug's voice seemed thinned by the long-distance connection. "Can you
give me a preliminary opinion?"
"I need time to get a feel for the situation."
He said, "Try not to take too long. At the moment I'm holding off
pressure to appoint someone in his place. His enemies up here-and a
sharp-tongued bastard like him acquires plenty of those-are trying to get
a search committee authorized to find someone else for the directorship
of the Cayslin Center for the Study of Man."
"Of People," she corrected automatically, as she always did. "What do
you mean, 'bastard'? I thought you liked him, Doug. 'Do you want me
to have to throw a smart, courtly, old-school gent to Finney or MaGill?'
Those were your very words." Finney was a Freudian with a mouth like
a pursed-up little asshole and a mind to match, and MaGill was a primal
yowler in a padded gym of an office.
.
She heard Doug tapping at his teeth with a pen or pencil. "Well," he
said, "I have a lot of respect for him, and sometimes I could cheer him
for mowing down some pompous moron up here. I can't deny, though,
that he's earned a reputation for being an accomplished son-of-a-bitch
and tough to work with. Too damn cold and self-sufficient, you know?"
"Mmm," she said. "I haven't seen that yet."
He said, "You will. How about yourself? How's the rest of your life?"
"Well, offhand, what would you say if I told you I was thinking of
going back to art school?"
"What would I say? I'd say bullshit, that's what I'd say. You've had 
,
·
,,) ,-,-:-;
1)\1 { Suzy McKEE CHARNAS \;_.. 203
fifteen years of doing something you're good at, and now you want to
throw all that out and start over in an area you haven't touched since
Studio 101 in college? If God had meant you to be a painter, She'd have
sent you to art school in the first place."
"I did think about art school at the time."
"The point is that you're good at what you do. I've been at the receiving
end of your work and I know what: I'm talking about. By the way, did
you see that piece in the paper about Annie Barnes, from the group I was
in? That's an important appointment. I always knew she'd wind up in
Washington. What I'm trying to make clear to you is that your 'graduates'
do too well for you to be talking about quitting. What's Morton say
about that idea, by the way?"
Mort, a pathologist, was floria's lover. She hadn't discussed this with
him, and she told Doug so.
"You're not on the outs with .Morton, are you?"
"Come on, Douglas, cut it out. There's nothing wrong with my sex
life, believe me. It's everyplace else that's giving me trouble."
"Just sticking my nose into your business," he replied. "What are
friends for ?"
They turned to lighter matters, but when she hung up Floria felt glum.
If her friends were moved to this sort of probing and kindly advicegiving, she must be inviting help more openly and more urgently than
she'd realized.
The work on the book went no better. It was as if, afraid to expose
her thoughts, she must disarm criticism by meeting all possible objections
beforehand. The book was well and truly stalled-like everything else.
She sat sweating over it, wondering what the devil was wrong with her
that she was writing mush. She had two good books to her name already.
What was this bottleneck with the third?
"But what do you think?" Kenny insisted anxiously. "Does it sound like
my kind of job?"
"How do you feel about it?"
"I'm all confused, I told you."
"Try speaking for me. Give me the advice I would give you."
He glowered. "That's a real cop-out, you know? One part of me talks
like you, and then I have a dialog with myself like a TV show about a
split personality. It's all me that way; you j ust sit there while I do all the
work. I want something from you. "
She looked for the twentieth time at the clock on the file cabinet. This
time it freed her. "Kenny, the hour's over."
Kenny heaved his plump, sulky body up out of his chair. "You don't
care. Oh, you pretend to, but you don't really-"
"Next time, Kenny."
He stumped out of the office. She imagined him towing in his wake the 
204 ?
?)j)}WI UNICORN TAPESTRY
raft of decisions he was trying to inveigle her into making for him. Sighing,
she went to the window and looked out over the park, filling her eyes
and her mind with the full, fresh green of late spring. She felt dismal. In
two years of treatment the situation with Kenny had remained a stalemate.
He wouldn't go to someone else who might be able to help him, and she
couldn't bring herself to kick him out, though she knew she must eventually. His puny tyranny couldn't conceal how soft and vulnerable he
was ...
Dr. Weyland had the next appointment. Floria found herself pleased to
see him. She could hardly have asked for a greater contrast to Kenny:
tall, lean, that august head that made her want to draw him, good clothes,
nice big hands-altogether, a distinguished-looking man. Though he was
informally dressed in slacks, light jacket, and tieless shirt, the impression
he conveyed was one of impeccable leisure and reserve. He took not
the padded chair preferred by most clients but the wooden one with the
cane seat.
"Good afternoon, Dr. Landauer," he said gravely. "May I ask your
judgment of my case ?"
"I don't regard myself as a judge," she said. She decided to try to shift
their discussion onto a first-name basis if possible. Calling this oldfashioned man by his first name so soon might seem artificial, but how
could they get familiar enough to do therapy while addressing each other
as "Dr. Landauer" and "Dr. Weyland" like two characters out of a vaudeville sketch ?
"This is what I think, Edward," she continued. "We need to fi nd out
about this vampire incident-how it tied into your feelings about yourself,
good and bad, at the time; what it did for you that led you to try to 'be'
a vampire even though that was bound to complicate your life terrifically.
The more we know, the closer we can come to figuring out how to insure
that this vampire construct won't be necessary to you again."
"Does this mean that you accept me formally as a client?" he said.
Comes right out and says what's on his mind, she noted; no problem
there. "Yes."
"Good. I too have a treatment goal in mind. I will need at some point
a testimonial from you that my mental health is sound enough for me to
resume work at Cayslin."
Floria shook her head. "I can't guarantee that. I can commit myself to
work toward it, of course, since your improved mental health is the aim
of what we do here together."
"I suppose that answers the purpose for the time being," he said. "We
can discuss it again later on. Frankly, I find myself eager to continue our
work today. I've been feeling very much better since I spoke with you,
and I thought last night about what I might tell you today."
She had the distinct feeling of being steered by him; how important was
it to him, she wondered, to feel in control? She said, "Edward, my own 
Suzy M cKEE CHA '
RNAS ?)? j)YJI 205
feeling is that we started out with a good deal of very useful verbal work,
and that now is a time to try something a little different."
He said nothing. He watched her. When she asked whether he remembered his dreams he shook his head, no.
She said, "I'd like you to try to do a dream for me now, a waking
dream. Can you close your eyes and daydream, and tell me about it?"
He closed his eyes. Strangely, he now struck her as less vulnerable rather
than more, as if strengthened by increased vigilance.
"How do you feel now?" she said.
"Uneasy." His eyelids fluttered. "I dislike closing my eyes. What I don't
see can hurt me."
"\'\Tho wants to hurt you?"
"A vampire's enemies, of course-mobs of screammg peasants with
torches."
Translating into what, she wonde red-young Ph.D.s pouring out of the
graduate schools panting for the jobs of older men like Weyland? "Peasants, these days?"
"Whatever their daily work, there is still a majority of the stupid, the
violent, and the credulous, putting their feather-brained faith in astrology,
in this cult or that, in various branches of psychology."
His sneer at her was unmistakable. Considering her refusal to let him
fill the hour his own way, this desire to take a swipe at her was healthy.
But it required immediate and straightforward handling.
"Edward, open your eyes and tell me what you see."
He obeyed. "I see a woman in her early forties," he said, "cleverlooking face, dark hair showing gray; flesh too thin for her bones, indicating either vanity or illness; wearing slacks and a rather creased batik
blouse-describable, I think, by the term 'peasant style'-with a food stain
on the left side."
Damn! Don't blush. "Does anything besides my blouse suggest a peasant to you?"
"Nothing concrete, but with regard to me, my vampire self, a peasant
with a torch is what you could easily become."
"I hear you saying that my task is to help you get rid of your delusion,
though this process may be painful and frightening for you."
Something flashed in his expression-surprise, perhaps alarm, something she wanted to get in touch with before it could sink away out of
reach again. Quickly she said, "How do you experience your face at
this moment?"
He frowned. "As being on the front of my head. Why?"
With a rush of anger at herself she saw that she had chosen the wrong
technique for reaching that hidden feeling: she had provoked hostility
instead. She said, "Your face looked to me j ust now like a mask for
concealing what you feel rather than an instrument of expression." 
206 ?UNICORN TAPESTRY
He moved restlessly in the chair, his whole physical attitude tense and
guarded. "I don't know what you mean."
"Will you let me touch you?" she said, rising.
His hands tightened on the arms of his chair, which protested in a
sharp creak. He snapped, "I thought this was a talking cure."
Strong resistance to body work-ease up. "If you won't let me massage
some of the tension out of your facial muscles, will you try to do it
yourself?"
"I don't enjoy being made ridiculous," he said, standing and heading
for the door, which clapped smartly to behind him.
She sagged back in her seat; she had mishandled him. Clearly her initial
estimation of this as a relatively easy job had been wrong and had led
her to move far too quickly with him. Certainly it was much too early to
try body work. She should have developed a firmer level of trust first by
letting him do more of what he did so easily and so well-talk.
The door opened. Weyland came back in and shut it quietly. He did
not sit again but paced about the room, coming to rest at the window.
"Please excuse my rather childish behavior just now," he said. "Playing
these games of yours brought it on."
"It's frustrating, playing games that are unfamiliar and that you can't
control," she said. As he made no reply, she went on in a conciliatory
tone, "I'm not trying to belittle you, Edward. I just need to get us off
whatever track you were taking us down so briskly. My feeling is that
you're trying hard to regain your old stability.
"But that's the goal, not the starting point. The only way to reach your
goal is through the process, and you don't drive the therapy process like
a train. You can only help the process happen, as though you were helping
a tree grow."
"These games are part of the process?"
"Yes."
"And neither you nor I control the games?"
"That's right."
He considered. "Suppose I agree to try this process of yours; what
would you want of me?"
Observing him carefully, she no longer saw the anxious scholar bravely
struggling back from madness. Here was a different sort of manarmored, calculating. She didn't know j ust what the change signaled, but
she felt her own excitement stirring, and that meant she was on the track
of-something.
"I have a hunch," she said slowly, "that this vampirism extends further
back into your past than you've told me and possibly right up into the
present as well. I think it's still with you. My style of therapy stresses
dealing with the now at least as much as the then; if the vampirism is
part of the present, dealing with it on that basis is crucial."
Silence. 
Suzy McKEE C HARNAS
"Can you talk about being a vampire: being one now?"
"You won't like knowing," he said.
"Edward, try."
He said, "I hunt."
"Where? How? What sort of-of victims?"
207
He folded his arms and leaned his back against the window frame.
"Very well, since you insist. There are a number of possibilities here in
the city in summer. Those too poor to own air-conditioners sleep out on
rooftops and fire escapes. But often, I've found, their blood is sour with
drugs or liquor. The same is true of prostitutes. Bars are full of accessible
people but also full of smoke and noise, and there too the blood is fouled.
I must choose my hunting grounds carefully. Often I go to openings of
galleries or evening museum shows or department shores on their late
nights-places where women may be approached."
And take pleasure in it, she thought, if they're out hunting also-for
acceptable male companionship. Yet he said he's never married. Explore
where this is going. "Only women?"
He gave her a sardonic glance, as if she were a slightly brighter student
than he had at first assumed.
"Hunting women is liable to be time-consuming and expensive. The
best hunting is in the part of Central Park they call the Ramble, where
homosexual men seek encounters with others of their kind. I walk there
too at night."
Floria caught a faint sound of conversation and laughter from the waiting room; her next client had probably arrived, she realized, looking reluctantly at the clock. "I'm sorry, Edward, but our time seems to be-"
"Only a moment more," he said coldly. "You asked; permit me to
finish my answer. In the Ramble I find someone who doesn't reek of
alcohol or drugs, who seems healthy, and who is not insistent on 'hooking
up' right there among the bushes. I invite such a man to my hotel. He
judges me safe, at least: older, weaker than he is, unlikely to turn out to
be a dangerous maniac. So he comes to my room. I feed on his blood.
"Now, I think, our time is up.·"
He walked out.
She sat torn between rejoicing at his admission of the delusion's persistence and dismay that his condition was so much worse than she had first
thought. Her hope of having an easy time with him vanished. His initial
presentation had been just that-·a performance, an act. Forced to abandon it, he had dumped on her this lump of material, too much-and too
strange-to take in all at once.
Her next client liked the padded chair, not the wooden one that Weyland had sat in during the first part of the hour. Floria started to move
the wooden one back. The armrests came away in her hands.
She remembered him starting up in protest against her proposal of 
208 :'t\\ ?2 ? UNICORN TAPESTRY
touching him. The grip of his fingers had fractured the joints, and the
shafts now lay in splinters on the floor.
Floria wandered into Lucille's room at the clinic after the staff meeting.
Lucille was lying on the couch with a wet cloth over her eyes.
"I thought you looked green around the gills today," Floria said.
"What's wrong?"
"Big bash last night," said Lucille in sepulchral tones. "I think I feel
about the way you do after a session with Chubs. You haven't gotten rid
of him yet, have you?"
"No. I had him lined up to see Marty instead of me last week, but
damned if he didn't show up at my door at his usual time. It's a lost
cause. What I wanted to talk to you about was Dracula."
"What about him?"
"He's smarter, tougher, and sicker than I thought, and maybe I'm even
less competent than I thought, too. He's already walked out on me onceI almost lost him. I never took a course in treating monsters."
Lucille groaned. "Some days they're all monsters." This from Lucille,
who worked longer hours than anyone else at the clinic, to the despair
of her husband. She lifted the cloth, refolded it, and placed it carefully
across her forehead. "And if I had ten dollars for every client who's
walked out on me ... Tell you what: I'll trade you Madame X for him,
how's that? Remember Madame X, with the jangling bracelets and the
parakeet eye makeup and the phobia about dogs? Now she's phobic about
things dropping on her out of the sky. Just wait-it'll turn out that one
day when she was three a dog trotted by and pissed on her leg j ust as an
over-passing pigeon shat on her head. What are we doing in this
business?"
"God knows," Floria laughed. "But am I in this business these daysI mean, in the sense of practicing my so-called skills? Blocked with my
group work, beating my brains out on a book that won't go, and doing
something-I'm not sure it's therapy-with a vampire ... You know,
once I had this sort of natural choreographer inside myself that hardly let
me put a foot wrong and always knew how to correct a mistake if I did.
Now that's gone. I feel as if I'm just going through a lot of mechanical
motions. Whatever I had once that made me useful as a therapist, I've
lost it."
Ugh, she thought, hearing the descent of her voice into a tone of gloomy
self-pity.
"Well, don't complain about Dracula," Lucille said. "You were the one
who insisted on taking him on. At least he's got you concentrating on his
problem instead of just wringing your hands. As long as you've started, stay
with it-illumination may come. And now I'd better change the ribbon in
my typewriter and get back to reviewing Silverman's latest best-seller on self-
Suzy McKEE CHARNAS ? 209
shrinking while I'm feeling mean enough to do it justice." She got up gingerly.
"Stick around in case I faint and fall into the wastebasket."
"Luce, this case is what I'd like to try to write about."
"Dracula?" Lucille pawed through a desk drawer full of paper clips,
pens, rubber bands and old lipsticks.
"Dracula. A monograph ... "
"Oh, I know that game: you scribble down everything you can and
then read what you wrote to find out what's going on with the client,
and with luck you end up publishing. Great! But if you are going to
publish, don't piddle this away on a dinky paper. Do a book. Here's your
subject, instead of those depressing statistics you've been killing yourself
over. This one is really exciting-a case study to put on the shelf next to
Freud's own wolf-man, have you thought of that?"
Floria liked it. "What a book that could be-fame if not fortune. Notoriety, most likely. How in the world could I convince our colleagues that
it's legit? There's a lot of vampire stuff around right now-plays on
Broadway and TV, books all over the place, movies. They'll say I'm j ust
trying to ride the coattails of a fad."
"No, no, what you do is show how this guy's delusion is related to the
fad. Fascinating." Lucille, having found a ribbon, prodded doubtfully at
the exposed innards of her typewriter.
"Suppose I fictionalize it," Floria said, "under a pseudonym. Why not
ride the popular wave and be free in what I can say?"
"Listen, you've never written a word of fiction in your life, have you?"
Lucille fixed her with a bloodshot gaze. "There's no evidence that you
could turn out a best-selling novel. On the other hand, by this time you
have a trained memory for accurately reporting therapeutic transactions.
That's a strength you'd be foolish to waste. A solid professional book
would be terrific-and a feather im the cap of every woman in the field.
Just make sure you get good legal advice on disguising your Dracula's
identity well enough to avoid libel."
The cane-seated chair wasn't worth repairing, so she got its twin out of
the bedroom to put in the office in its place. Puzzling: by his history
Weyland was fifty-two, and by his appearance no muscle man. She should
have asked Doug-but how, exactly? "By the way, Doug, was Weyland
ever a circus strong man or a blacksmith? Does he secretly pump iron?"
Ask the client himself-but not yet.
She invited some of the younger staff from the clinic over for a small
party with a few of her outside friends. It was a good evening; they
were not a heavy-drinking crowd, which meant the conversation stayed
intelligent. The guests drifted about the long living room or stood in
twos and threes at the windows looking down on West End Avenue as
they talked.
Mort came, warming the room. Fresh from a session with some amateur 
210 'll\\ :e ,_,. UNICORN TAPESTRY
chamber-music friends, he still glowed with the pleasure of making his
cello sing. His own voice was unexpectedly light for so large a man.
Sometimes Floria thought that the deep throb of the cello was his true
VOICe.
He stood beside her talking with some others. There was no need to
lean against his comfortable bulk or to have him put his arm around her
waist. Their intimacy was long-standing, an effortless pleasure in each
other that required neither demonstration nor concealment.
He was easily diverted from music to his next favorite topic, the
strengths and skills of athletes.
"Here's a question for a paper I'm thinking of writing," Floria said.
"Could a tall, lean man be exceptionally strong?"
Mort rambled on in his thoughtful way. His answer seemed to be no.
"But what about chimpanzees?" put in a young clinician. "I went with
a guy once who was an animal handler for TV, and he said a threemonth-old chimp could demolish a strong man."
"It's all physical conditioning," somebody else said. "Modern people
are soft."
Mort nodded. "Human beings in general are weakly made compared
to other animals. It's a question of muscle insertions-the angles of how
the muscles are attached to the bones. Some angles give better leverage
than others. That's how a leopard can bring down a much bigger animal
than itself. It has a muscular structure that gives it tremendous strength
for its streamlined build."
Floria said, "If a man were built with muscle insertions like a leopard's,
he'd look pretty odd, wouldn't he?"
"Not to an untrained eye," Mort said, sounding bemused by an inner
vision. "And my God, what an athlete he'd make-can you imagine a
guy in the decathlon who's as strong as a leopard?"
When everyone else had gone Mort stayed, as he often did. Jokes about
insertions, muscular and otherwise, soon led to sounds more expressive
and more animal, but afterward Floria didn't feel like resting snuggled
together with Mort and talking. When her body stopped racing, her mind
turned to her new client. She didn't want to discuss him with Mort, so
she ushered Mort out as gently as she could and sat down by herself at
the kitchen table with a glass of orange juice.
How to approach the reintegration of Weyland the eminent, gray-haired
academic with the rebellious vampire-self that had smashed his life out
of shape ?
She thought of the broken chair, of Weyland's big hands crushing the
wood. Old wood and dried-out glue, of course, or he never could have
done that. He was a man, after all, not a leopard.
The day before the third session Weyland phoned and left a message with
Hilda: he would not be coming to the office tomorrow for his appoint-
,,) I,:(
suzy M cKEE CHARNAs jn ·r' 211
ment, but if Dr. Landauer were agreeable she would find him at their
usual hour at the Central Park Zoo.
Am I going to let him move me around from here to there? she thought.
I shouldn't-but why fight it? Give him some leeway, see what opens up
in a different setting. Besides, it was a beautiful day, probably the last of
the sweet May weather before the summer stickiness descended. She gladly
cut Kenny short so that she would have time to walk over to i:he zoo.
There was a fair crowd there for a weekday. Well-groomed young matrons pushed clean, floppy babies in strollers. Weyland she spotted at once.
He was leaning against the railing that enclosed the seals' shelter and
their murky green pool. His jacket, slung over his shoulder, draped elegantly down his long back. Floria thought him rather dashing and faintly
foreign-looking. Women who passed him, she noticed, tended to glance
back.
He looked at everyone. She had the impression that he knew quite well
that she was walking up behind him.
"Outdoors makes a nice change from the office, Edward," she said,
coming to the rail beside him. "But there must be more to this than a
longing for fresh air." A fat seal lay in sculptural grace on the concrete,
eyes blissfully shut, fur drying in the sun to a translucent water-color
umber.
Weyland straightened from the rail. They walked. He did not look at
the animals; his eyes moved continually over the crowd. He said, "Someone has been watching for me at your office building."
"Who?"
"There are several possibilities .
. Pah, what a stench-though humans
caged in similar circumstances smell as bad." He sidestepped a couple of
shrieking children who were fighting over a balloon and headed out of
the zoo under the musical clock.
They walked the uphill path northward through the park. By extending
her own stride a little Floria found that she could comfortably keep pace
with him.
"Is it peasants with torches?" she said. "Following you?"
He said, "What a childish idea."
All right, try another tack, then: "You were telling me last time about
hunting in the Ramble. Can we return to that?"
"If you wish." He sounded bored-a defense? Surely-she was certain
this must be the right reading-surely his problem was a transmutation
into "vampire" fantasy of an unacceptable aspect of himself. For men of
his generation the confrontation with homosexual drives could be
devastating.
"When you pick up someone in the Ramble, is it a paid encounter?"
"Usually."
"How do you feel about having to pay?" She expected resentment.
He gave a faint shrug. "Why not? Others work to earn their bread. I 
212 ?
?J?}hll UNICORN TAPESTRY
work, too, very hard, in fact. Why shouldn't I use my earnings to pay for
my sustenance ?"
Why did he never play the expected card? Baffled, she paused to drink
from a fountain. They walked on.
"Once you've got your quarry, how do you ... " She fumbled for
a word.
"Attack?" he supplied, unperturbed. "There's a place on the neck, here,
where pressure can interrupt the blood flow to the brain and cause unconsciousness. Getting close enough to apply that pressure isn't difficult."
"You do this before or after any sexual activity?"
"Before, if possible," he said aridly, "and instead of." He turned aside
to stalk up a slope to a granite outcrop that overlooked the path they
had been following. There he settled on his haunches, looking back the
way they had come. Floria, glad she'd worn slacks today, sat down
near him.
He didn't seem devastated-anything but. Press him, don't let him get
by on cool. "Do you often prey on men in preference to women?"
"Certainly. I take what is easiest. Men have always been more accessible
because women have been walled away like prizes or so physically impoverished by repeated childbearing as to be unhealthy prey for me. All this
has begun to change recently, but gay men are still the simplest quarry."
While she was recovering from her surprise at his unforeseen and weirdly
skewed awareness of female history, he added suavely, "How carefully
you control your expression, Dr. Landauer-no trace of disapproval."
She did disapprove, she realized. She would prefer him not to be committed sexually to men. Oh, hell.
He went on, "Yet no doubt you see me as one who victimizes the
already victimized. This is the world's way. A wolf brings down the stragglers at the edges of the herd. Gay men are denied the full protection of
the human herd and are at the same time emboldened to make themselves
known and available.
"On the other hand, unlike the wolf I can feed without killing, and
these particular victims pose no threat to me that would cause me to kill.
Outcasts themselves, even if they comprehend my true purpose among
them they cannot effectively accuse me."
God, how neatly, completely, and ruthlessly he distanced the homosexual community from himself! "And how do you feel, Edward, about their
purposes?their sexual expectations of you?"
"The same way I feel about the sexual expectations of women whom
I choose to pursue: they don't interest me. Besides, once my hunger is
active, sexual arousal is impossible. My physical unresponsiveness seems
to surprise no one. Apparently impotence is expected in a gray-haired
man, which suits my intention."
Some kids carrying radios swung past below, trailing a jumble of amplified thump, wail, and jabber. Floria gazed after them unseeingly, thinking, 
Suzy McKEE CHARNAS ? 213
astonished again, that she had never heard a man speak of his own impotence with such cool indifference. She had induced him to talk about his
problem all right. He was speaking as freely as he had in the first session,
only this time it was no act. He was drowning her in more than she had
ever expected or for that matter wanted to know about vampirism. What
the hell: she was listening, she thought she understood-what was it all
good for? Time for some cold reality, she thought; see how far he can
carry all this incredible detail. Give the whole structure a shove.
She said, "You realize, I'm sure, that people of either sex who make
themselves so easily available are also liable to be carriers of disease.
When was your last medical checkup?"
"My dear Dr. Landauer, my first medical checkup will be my last.
Fortunately, I have no great need of one. Most serious illnesses-hepatitis,
for example-reveal themselves to me by a quality in the odor of the
victim's skin. Warned, I abstain. When I do fall ill, as occasionally happens, I withdraw to some place where I can heal undisturbed. A doctor's
attention would be more dangerous to me than any disease."
Eyes on the path below, he cominued calmly, "You can see by looking
at me that there are no obvious dues to my unique nature. But believe
me, an examination of any depth by even a half-sleeping medical practitioner would reveal some alarming deviations from the norm. I take
pains to stay healthy, and I seem to be gifted with an exceptionally
hardy constitution."
Fantasies of being unique and physically superior; take him to the other
pole. "I'd like you to try something now. Will you put yourself into the
mind of a man you contact in the Ramble and describe your encounter
with him from his point of view?'"
He turned toward her and for some moments regarded her without
expression. Then he resumed his surveillance of the path. "I will not.
Though I do have enough empathy with my quarry to enable me to hunt
efficiently. I must draw the line at erasing the necessary distance that
keeps prey and predator distinct.
"And now I think our ways part for today." He stood up, descended
the hillside, and walked beneath some low-canopied trees, his tall back
stooped, toward the Seventy-second Street entrance of the park.
Floria arose more slowly, aware suddenly of her shallow breathing and
the sweat on her face. Back to reality or what remained of it. She looked
at her watch. She was late for her next client.
Floria couldn't sleep that night. Barefoot in her bathrobe she paced the
living room by lamplight. They had sat together on that hill as isolated
as in her office-more so, because there was no Hilda and no phone. He
was, she knew, very strong, and he had sat close enough to her to reach
out for that paralyzing touch to the neckJust suppose for a minute that Weyland had been brazenly telling the 
214 ?
?)l)}WI UNICORN TAPESTRY
truth all along, counting on her to treat it as a delusion because on the
face of it the truth was inconceivable.
Jesus, she thought, if I'm thinking that way about him, this therapy is
more out of control than I thought. What kind of therapist becomes an
accomplice to the client's fantasy? A crazy therapist, that's what kind.
Frustrated and confused by the turmoil in her mind, she wandered into
the workroom. By morning the floor was covered with sheets of newsprint, each broadly marked by her felt-tipped pen. Floria sat in the midst
of them, gritty-eyed and hungry.
She often approached problems this way, harking back to art training:
turn off the thinking, put hand to paper and see what the deeper, less
verbally sophisticated parts of the mind have to offer. Now that her
dreams had deserted her, this was her only access to those levels.
The newsprint sheets were covered with rough representations of Weyland's
face and form. Across several of them were scrawled words: "Dear Doug,
your vampire is fine, it's your ex-therapist who's off the rails. Warning:
Therapy can be dangerous to your health. Especially if you are the therapist.
Beautiful vampire, awaken to me. Am I really ready to take on a legendary
monster? Give up-refer this one out. Do your job-work is a good doctor."
That last one sounded pretty good, except that doing her job was precisely what she was feeling so shaky about these days.
Here was another message: "How come this attraction to someone so
scary?" Oh, ho, she thought, is that a real feeling or an aimless reaction
out of the body's early-morning hormone peak? You don't want to confuse honest libido with mere biological clockwork.
Deborah called. Babies cried in the background over the Scotch Symphony. Nick, Deb's husband, was a musicologist with fervent opinions on
music and nothing else.
"We'll be in town a little later in the summer," Deborah said, "just for
a few days at the end of July. Nicky has this seminar-convention thing.
Of course, it won't be easy with the babies ... I wondered if you might
sort of coordinate your vacation so you could spend a little time with
them?"
Baby-sit, that meant. Damn. Cute as they were and all that, damn!
Floria gritted her teeth. Visits from Deb were difficult. Floria had been so
proud of her bright, hard-driving daughter, and then suddenly Deborah
had dropped her studies and rushed to embrace all the dangers that Floria
had warned her against: a romantic, too-young marriage, instant breeding,
no preparation for self-support, the works. Well, to each her own, but it
was so wearing to have Deb around playing the empty-headed hausfrau.
"Let me think, Deb. I'd love to see all of you, but I've been considering
spending a couple of weeks in Maine with your Aunt Nonnie." God
knows I need a real vacation, she thought, though the peace and quiet
up there is hard for a city kid like me to take for long. Still, Nonnie, 
Suzy M cKEE CHARNAS ? 215
Floria's younger sister, was good .:ompany. "Maybe you could bring the
kids up there for a couple of days. There's room in that great barn of a
place, and of course Nonnie'd be happy to have you."
"Oh, no, Mom, it's so dead up there, it drives Nick crazy-don't tell
Nonnie I said that. Maybe Nonnie could come down to the city instead.
You could cancel a date or two and we could all go to Coney Island
together, things like that."
Kid things, which would drive Nonnie crazy and Floria too before long.
"I doubt she could manage," Floria said, "but I'll ask. Look, hon, if I do
go up there, you and Nick and the kids could stay here at the apartment
and save some money."
"We have to be at the hotel for the seminar," Deb said shortly. No
doubt she was feeling just as impatient as Floria was by now. "And the
kids haven't seen you for a long time-it would be really nice if you could
stay in the city just for a few days."
"We'll try to work something out." Always working something out.
Concord never comes naturally-first we have to butt heads and get pissed
off. Each time you call I hope it'll be different, Floria thought.
Somebody shrieked for "oly," jdly that would be, in the backgroundFloria felt a sudden rush of warmth for them, her grandkids for God's
sake. Having been a young mother herself, she was still young enough to
really enjoy them (and to fight with Deb about how to bring them up).
Deb was starting an awkward goodbye. Floria replied, put the phone
down, and sat with her head back against the flowered kitchen wallpaper,
thinking, Why do I feel so rotten now? Deb and I aren't close, no comfort,
seldom friends, though we were once. Have I said everything wrong, made
her think I don't want to see her and don't care about her family? What
does she want from me that I can't seem to give her? Approval? Maybe
she thinks I still hold her marriage against her. Well, I do, sort of. What
right have I to be critical, me with my divorce? What terrible things would
she say to me, would I say to her, that we take such care not to say
anything important at all?
"I think today we might go into sex," she said.
Weyland responded dryly, "Might we indeed. Does it titillate you to
wring confessions of solitary vice from men of mature years?"
Oh no you don't, she thought. You can't sidestep so easily. "Under
what circumstances do you find yourself sexually aroused?"
"Most usually upon waking from sleep," he said indifferently.
"What do you do about it?"
"The same as others do. I am not a cripple, I have hands."
"Do you have fantasies at these times?"
"No. Women, and men for that matter, appeal t o m e very little, either
in fantasy or reality."
"Ah-what about female vampires?" she said, trying not to sound arch. 
216 m:3il
?]!.)Jhil UNICORN T APESTRY
"I know of none."
Of course: the neatest out in the book. "They're not needed for reproduction, I suppose, because people who die of vampire bites become vampires themselves."
He said testily, "Nonsense. I am not a communicable disease."
So he had left an enormous hole in his construct. She headed straight
for it: "Then how does your kind reproduce?"
"I have no kind, so far as I am aware," he said, "and I do not reproduce. Why should I, when I may live for centuries still, perhaps indefinitely? My sexual equipment is clearly only detailed biological mimicry,
a form of protective coloration." How beautiful, how simple a solution,
she thought, full of admiration in spite of herself. "Do I occasionally
detect a note of prurient interest in your questions, Dr. Landauer? Something akin to stopping at the cage to watch the tigers mate at the zoo?"
"Probably," she said, feeling her face heat. He had a great backhand
return shot there. "How do you feel about that?"
He shrugged.
"To return to the point," she said. "Do I hear you saying that you
have no urge whatever to engage in sexual intercourse with anyone?"
"Would you mate with your livestock?"
His matter-of-fact arrogance took her breath away. She said weakly,
"Men have reportedly done so."
"Driven men. I am not driven in that way. My sex urge is of low
frequency and is easily dealt with unaided-although I occasionally engage
in copulation out of the necessity to keep up appearances. I am capable,
but not-like humans-obsessed."
Was he sinking into lunacy before her eyes? "I think I hear you saying,"
she said, striving to keep her voice neutral, "that you're not just a man
with a unique way of life. I think I hear you saying that you're not human
at all."
"I thought that this was already clear."
"And that there are no others like you."
"None that I know of."
"Then-you see yourself as what? Some sort of mutation?"
"Perhaps. Or perhaps your kind are the mutation."
She saw disdain in the curl of his lip. "How does your mouth feel
now?"
"The corners are drawn down. The feeling is contempt."
"Can you let the contempt speak?"
He got up and went to stand at the window, positioning himself slightly
to one side as if to stay hidden from the street below.
"Edward," she said.
He looked back at her. "Humans are my food. I draw the life out of
their veins. Sometimes I kill them. I am greater than they are. Yet I must 
S uzy McKEE CHARNAS ? 217
spend my time thinking about their habits and their drives, scheming to
avoid the dangers they pose-I hate them."
She felt the hatred like a dry heat radiating from him. God, he really
lived all this! She had tapped into a furnace of feeling. And now? The
sensation of triumph wavered, and she grabbed at a next move: hit him
with reality now, while he's burning.
"What about blood banks?" she said. "Your food is commercially available, so why all the complication and danger of the hunt?"
"You mean I might turn my efforts to piling up a fortune and buying
blood by the case? That would certainly make for an easier, less risky life
in the short run. I could fit quite comfortably into modern society if I
became just another consumer.
"However, I prefer to keep the mechanics of my survival firmly in my
own hands. After all, I can't afford to lose my hunting skills. In two
hundred years there may be no blood banks, but I will still need my food."
Jesus, you set him a hurdle and he just flies over it. Are there no
weaknesses in all this, has he no blind spots? Look at his tension-go
back to that. Floria said, "What do you feel now in your body?"
"Tightness." He pressed his spread fingers to his abdomen.
"What are you doing with your hands?"
"I put my hands t o m y stomach."
"Can you speak for your stomach?"
" 'Feed me or die,' " he snarled.
Elated again, she closed in: "And for yourself, in answer?"
" 'Will you never be satisfied?' " He glared at her. "You shouldn't seduce me into quarreling with the terms of my own existence!"
"Your stomach is your existence," she para phrased.
"The gut determines," he said harshly. "That first, everything else after."
"Say, 'I resent ... '"
He held to a tense silence.
" 'I resent the power of my gut over my life,' " she said for him.
He stood with an abrupt motion and glanced at his watch, an elegant
flash of slim silver on his wrist. "Enough," he said.
That night at home she began a set of notes that would never enter his
file at the office, notes toward the proposed book.
Couldn't do it, couldn't get properly into the sex thing with him. Everything shoots off in all directions. His vampire concept so thoroughly
worked out, find myself half believing sometimes-my own childish
fantasy-response to his powerful death-avoidance, contact-avoidance
fantasy. Lose professional distance every time-is that what scares me
about him? Don't really want ItO shatter his delusion (my life a mess,
what right to tear down others' patterns?)-so see it as real? Wonder
how much of "vampirism" he acts out, how far, how often. Something 
218 ?UNICORN TAPESTRY
attractive in his purely selfish, predatory stance-the lure of the great
outlaw.
Told me today quite coolly about a man he killed recently-inadvertently-by drinking too much from him. Is it fantasy? Of course-the
victim, he thinks, was a college student. Breathes there a professor who
hasn't dreamed of murdering some representative youth, retaliation for
years of classroom frustration? Speaks of teaching with acerbic
humor-amuses him to work at cultivating the minds of those he regards strictly as bodies, containers of his sustenance. He shows the
alienness of full-blown psychopathology, poor bastard, plus clean-cut
logic. Suggested he find another job (assuming his delusion at least in
part related to pressures at Cayslin); his fantasy-persona, the vampire,
more realistic than I about job-switching:
"For a man of my apparent age it's not so easy to make such a
change in these tight times. I might have to take a position lower on
the ladder of 'success' as you people assess it." Status is important to
him? "Certainly. An eccentric professor is one thing; an eccentric pipefitter, another. And I like good cars, which are expensive to own and
run." Then, thoughtful addition. "Although there are advantages to a
simpler, less visible life." He refuses to discuss other "jobs" from former "lives." We are deep into the fantasy-where the hell going? Damn
right I don't control the "games"-preplanned therapeutic strategies
get whirled away as soon as we begin. Nerve-wracking.
Tried again to have him take the part of his enemy-victim, peasant
with torch. Asked if he felt himself rejecting that point of view? Frosty
reply: "Naturally. The peasant's point of view is in no way my own.
I've been reading in your field, Dr. Landauer. You work from the
Gestalt orientation-" Originally yes, I corrected; eclectic now. "But
you do proceed from the theory that I am projecting some aspect of
my own feelings outward onto others, whom I then treat as my victims.
Your purpose then must be to maneuver me into accepting as my own
the projected 'victim' aspect of myself. This integration is supposed
to effect the freeing of energy previously locked into maintaining the
projection. All this is an interesting insight into the nature of ordinary
human confusion, but I am not an ordinary human, and I am not
confused. I cannot afford confusion." Felt sympathy for him-telling
me he's afraid of having own internal confusions exposed in therapy,
too threatening. Keep chipping away at delusion, though with what
prospect? It's so complex, deep-seated.
Returned to his phrase "my apparent age." He asserts he has lived
many human lifetimes,· all details forgotten, however, during periods of
suspended animation between lives. Perhaps sensing my skepticism at 
S uzy M cKEE CHARNAS ? 219
such handy amnesia, grew cool and distant, claimed to know little
about the hibernation process itself: "The essence of this state is that
I sleep through it-hardly an ideal condition for making scientific
observations."
Edward thinks his body synthesizes vitamins, minerals (as all our
bodies synthesize vitamin D), even proteins. Describes unique design
he deduces in himself: special intestinal microfauna plus superefficient
body chemistry extracts enough energy to live on from blood. Damn
good mileage per calorie, too. (Recall observable tension, first interview,
at question about drinking-my note on possible alcohol problem!)
Speak for blood: " 'Lacking me, you have no life. I flow to the
heart's soft drumbeat through l ightless prisons of flesh. I am rich, I am
nourishing, I am difficult to attain.' " Stunned to find him positively
lyrical on subject of his "food." Drew attention to whispering voice of
blood. " 'Yes. I am secret, hidden beneath the surface, patient, silent,
steady. I work unnoticed, an unseen thread of vitality running from
age to age-beautiful, efficient, self-renewing, self-cleansing, warm, filling-' " Could see him getting worked up. Finally he stood: "My appetite is pressing. I must leave you." And he did.
Sat and trembled for five minutes after.
New development (or new perception?): he sometimes comes across
very unsophisticated about own feelings-lets me pursue subjects of
extreme intensity and delicacy to him.
Asked him to daydream-a hunt. (Hands-mine-shaking now as I
write. God. What a session.) He told of picking up a woman at poetry
reading, 92nd Street Y-has N.Y.C. all worked out, circulates to avoid
too much notice any one spot. Spoke easily, eyes shut without observable strain: chooses from audience a redhead in glasses, dress with
drooping neckline (ease of access),, no perfume (strong smells bother
him). Approaches during the intermission, encouraged to see her fanning away smoke of others' cigarettes-meaning she doesn't smoke,
health sign. Agreed in not enjoying the reading, they adjourn together
to coffee shop.
"She asks whether I'm a teacher," he says, eyes shut, mouth amused.
"My clothes, glasses, manner all suggest this, and I emphasize the impression-it reassures. She's a copy editor for a publishing house. We
talk about books. The waiter brings her a gummy-looking pastry. As
a non-eater, I pay little attention to the quality of restaurants, so I must
apologize to her. She waves this away-is engrossed, or pretending to
be engrossed, in talk." A longish dialog between interested woman and
Edward doing shy-lonesome-scholar act-dead wife, competitive young
colleagues who don't understand him, quarrels in professional journals
with big shots in his field-a version of what he first told me. She's 
220 ?
?JDFJI UNICORN TAPESTRY
attracted (of course-lanky, rough-cut elegance plus hints of vulnerability all very alluring, as intended). He offers to take her home.
Tension in his body at this point in narrative-spine clear of chair
back, hands braced on thighs. "She settles beside me in the back of the
cab, talking about problems of her own career-illegible manuscripts of
Biblical length, mulish editors, suicidal authors-and I make comforting
comments, I lean nearer and put my arm along the back of the seat,
behind her shoulders. Traffic is heavy, we move slowly. There is time
to make my meal here in the taxi and avoid a tedious extension of the
situation into her apartment-if I move soon."
How do you feel?
"Eager," he says, voice husky. "My hunger is so roused I can scarcely
restrain myself. A powerful hunger, not like yours-mine compels. I
embrace her shoulders lightly, make kindly .. uncle remarks, treading that
fine line between the game of seduction she perceives and the game of
friendly interest I pretend to affect. My real purpose underlies all: what
I say, how I look, every gesture is part of the stalk. There is an added
excitement, and fear, because I'm doing my hunting in the presence of
a third person-behind the cabbie's head."
Could scarcely breathe. Studied him-intent face, masklike with
closed eyes, nostrils slightly flared; legs tensed, hands clenched on knees.
Whispering: "I press the place on her neck. She starts, sighs faintly,
silently drops against me. In the stale stench of the cab's interior, with
the ticking of the meter in my ears and the mutter of the radio-! take
hold here, at the tenderest part of her throat. Sound subsides into the
background-! feel the sweet blood beating under her skin, I taste salt
at the moment before !-strike. My saliva thins her blood so that it
flows out, I draw the blood into my mouth swiftly, swiftly, before she
can wake, before we can arrive ... "
Trailed off, sat back loosely in chair-saw him swallow. "Ah. I feed."
Heard him sigh. Managed to ask about physical sensation. His low
murmur, "Warm. Heavy, here-" touches his belly-"in a pleasant
way. The good taste of blood, tart and rich, in my mouth ... "
And then? A flicker of movement beneath his closed eyelids: "In time
I am aware that the cabbie has glanced back once and has taken ourembrace for j ust that. I can feel the cab slowing, hear him move to
turn off the meter. I withdraw, I quickly wipe my mouth on my handkerchief. I take her by the shoulders and shake her gently; does she
often have these attacks, I inquire, the soul of concern. She comes
around, bewildered, weak, thinks she has fainted. I give the driver extra
money and ask him to wait. He looks intrigued-'What was that all
about,' I can see the question in his face-but as a true New Yorker
he won't expose his own ignorance by asking.
"I escort the woman to her front door, supporting her as she staggers.
Any suspicion of me that she may entertain, however formless and 
Suzy M cKEE CHARNAS 1hl ?2 221
hazy, is allayed by my stern charging of the doorman to see that she
reaches her apartment safely. She grows embarrassed, thinks perhaps
that if not put off by her 'illness' I would spend the night with her,
which moves her to press upon me, unasked, her telephone number. I
bid her a solicitous good night and take the cab back to my hotel,
where I sleep."
No sex? No sex.
How did he feel about the victim as a person? "She was food."
This was his "hunting" of last night, he admits afterward, not a
made-up dream. No boasting in it, just telling. Telling me! Think: I
can go talk to Lucille, Mort, Doug, others about most of what matters
to me. Edward has only me to talk to and that for a fee-what isolation! No wonder the stone, monumental face-only those long, strong
lips (his point of contact, verbal .and physical-in-fantasy, with the world
and with "food") are truly expressive. An exciting narration; uncomfortable to find I felt not only empathy but enjoyment. Suppose he
picked up and victimized-even in fantasy-Deb or Hilda, how would
I feel then ?
Later: truth-! also found this recital sexually stirring. Keep visualizing how he looked finishing this "dream"-he sat very still, head up,
look of thoughtful pleasure on his face. Like handsome intellectual
listening to music.
Kenny showed up unexpectedly at Floria's office on Monday, bursting
with malevolent energy. She happened to be free, so she took him-something was definitely up. He sat on the edge of his chair.
"I know why you're trying to unload me," he accused. "It's that new
one, the tall guy with the snooty look-what is he, an old actor or something? Anybody could see he's got you itching for him."
"Kenny, when was it that I first: spoke to you about terminating our
work together?" she said patiently.
"Don't change the subject. Let me tell you, in case you don't know it:
that guy isn't really interested, Doctor, because he's a fruit. A faggot. You
want to know how I know?"
Oh Lord, she thought wearily, he's regressed to age ten. She could see
that she was going to hear the rest whether she wanted to or not. What
in God's name was the world like for Kenny, if he clung so fanatically to
her despite her failure to help him?
"Listen, I knew right away there was something flaky about him, so I
followed him from here to that hotel where he lives. I followed him the
other afternoon too. He walked around like he does a lot, and then he
went into one of those ritzy movie houses on Third that open early and
show risque foreign movies-you know, Japs cutting each other's things
off and glop like that. This one was French, though.
"Well, there was a guy came in, a Madison Avenue type carrying his 
222 @.@)
?])}WI UNICORN TAPESTRY
attache case, taking a work break or something. Your man moved over
and sat down behind him and reached out and sort of stroked the guy's
neck, and the guy leaned back, and your man leaned forward and started
nuzzling at him, you know-kissing him.
"I saw it. They had their heads together and they stayed like that a
while. It was disgusting: complete strangers, without even 'hello.' The
Madison Avenue guy just sat there with his head back looking zonked,
you know, just swept away, and what he was doing with his hands under
his raincoat in his lap I couldn't see, but I bet you can guess.
"And then your fruity friend got up and walked out. I did, too, and I
hung around a little outside. After a while the Madison Avenue guy came
out looking all sleepy and loose, like after you-know-what, and he wandered off on his own someplace.
"What do you think now?" he ended, on a high, triumphant note.
Her impulse was to slap his face the way she would have slapped Debas-a-child for tattling. But this was a client, not a kid. God give me
strength, she thought.
"Kenny, you're fired."
"You can't!" he squealed. "You can't! What will 1-who can 1-"
She stood up, feeling weak but hardening her voice. "I'm sorry. I absolutely cannot have a client who makes it his business to spy on other
clients. You already have a list of replacement therapists from me."
He gaped at her in slack-jawed dismay, his eyes swimmy with tears.
"I'm sorry, Kenny. Call this a dose of reality therapy and try to learn
from it. There are some things you simply will not be allowed to do."
She felt better: it was done at last.
"I hate you!" He surged out of his chair, knocking it back against the
wall. Threateningly he glared at the fish tank, but, contenting himself with
a couple of kicks at the nearest table leg, he stamped out.
Floria buzzed Hilda: "No more appointments for Kenny, Hilda. You
can close his file."
"Whoopee," Hilda said.
Poor, horrid Kenny. Impossible to tell what would happen to him,
better not to speculate or she might relent, call him back. She had encouraged him, really, by listening instead of shutting him up and throwing
him out before any damage was done.
Was it damaging, to know the truth? In her mind's eye she saw a
cream-faced young man out of a Black Thumb Vodka ad wander from a
movie theater into daylight, yawning and rubbing absently at an irritation
on his neck ...
She didn't even look at the telephone on the table or think about whom
to call, now that she believed. No; she was going to keep quiet about Dr.
Edward Lewis Weyland, her vampire.
Hardly alive at staff meeting, clinic, yesterday-people asking what's
the matter, fobbed them off. Settled down today. Had to, to face him. 
S uzy M cKEE C HARNAS ? 223
Asked him what he felt were his strengths. He said speed, cunning,
ruthlessness. Animal strengths, I said. What about imagination, or is
that strictly human? He defended at once: not human only. Lion, waiting at water hole where no zebra yet drinks, thinks "Zebra-eat,"
therefore performs feat of imagining event yet-to-come. Self experienced
as animal? Yes-reminded me that humans are also animals. Pushed for
his early memories; he objected: "Gestalt is here-and-now, not historytaking." I insist, citing anomalous nature of his situation, my own
refusal to be bound by any one theoretical framework. He defends
tensely: "Suppose I became lost there in memory, distracted from dangers of the present, left unguarded from those dangers."
Speak for memory. He resists, but at length attempts it: " 'I am heavy
with the multitudes of the past.' " Fingertips to forehead propping up
all that weight of lives. " 'So heavy, filling worlds of time laid down
eon by eon, I accumulate, I persist, I demand recognition, I am as real
as the life around you-more real, weightier, richer. '" His voice sinking, shoulders bowed, head in hands-I begin to feel pressure at the
back of my own skull. " 'Let me in.' " Only a rough whisper now. " 'I
offer beauty as well as terror. Let me in.' " Whispering also, I suggest
he reply to his memory.
"Memory, you want to crush me," he groans. "You would overwhelm me with the cries of animals, the odor and jostle of bodies, old
betrayals, dead joys, filth and anger from other times-I must concentrate on the danger now. Let me be." All I can take of this crazy
conflict, I gabble us off onto something else. He looks up-relief?-­
follows my lead-where ? Rest of session a blank.
No wonder sometimes no empathy at all-a species boundary! He
has to be utterly self-centered just to keep balance-self-centeredness
of an animal. Thought just now of our beginning, me trying to push
him to produce material, trying to control him, manipulate-no way,
no way; so here we are, someplace else-I feel dazed, in shock, but
stick with it-it's real.
Therapy with a dinosaur, a Martian.
"You call me 'Weyland' now, not 'Edward.' " I said first name couldn't
mean much to one with no memory of being called by that name as a
child, silly to pretend it signifies intimacy where it can't. I think he
knows now that I believe him. Without prompting, told me truth of
disappearance from Cayslin. No romance; he tried to drink from a
woman who worked there, she shot him, stomach and chest. Luckily
for him, small-caliber pistol, and he was wearing a lined coat over
three-piece suit. Even so, badly hurt. (Midsection stiffness I noted when
he first came-he was still in some pain at that time.) He didn't "vanish"-f!ed, hid, was bound by questionable types who caught on to
what he was, sold him "like a chattel" to someone here in the city. He 
224 ? M.l¥11 UNICORN TAPESTRY
was imprisoned, fed, put on exhibition-very privately-for gain. Got
away. "Do you believe any of this?" Never asked anything like that
before, seems of concern to him now. I said my belief or lack of same
was immaterial; remarked on hearing a lot of bitterness.
He steepled his fingers, looked brooding at me over tips: "I nearly
died there. No doubt my purchaser and his diabolist friend still search
for me. Mind you, I had some reason at first to be glad of the attentions
of the people who kept me prisoner. I was in no condition to fend for
myself. They brought me food and kept me hidden and sheltered, whatever their motives. There are always advantages ... "
Silence today started a short session. Hunting poor last night, Weyland
still hungry. Much restless movement, watching goldfish darting in
tank, scanning bookshelves. Asked him to be books. " 'I am old and
full of knowledge, well made to last long. You see only the title, the
substance is hidden. I am a book that stays closed.' " Malicious twist
of the mouth, not quite a smile: "This is a good game." Is he feeling
threatened, too-already "opened" too much to me? Too strung out
with him to dig when he's skimming surfaces that should be probed.
Don't know how to do therapy with Weyland-just have to let things
happen, hope it's good. But what's "good" ? Aristotle? Rousseau? Ask
Weyland what's good, he'll say "Blood."
Everything in a spin-these notes too confused, too fragmentaryworthless for a book, just a mess, like me, my life. Tried to call Deb
last night, cancel visit. Nobody home, thank God. Can't tell her to stay
away-but damn it-do not need complications now!
Floria went down to Broadway with Lucille to get more juice, cheese
and crackers for the clinic fridge. This week it was their turn to do the
provisions, a chore that rotated among the staff. Their talk about grant
proposals for the support of the clinic trailed off.
"Let's sit a minute," Floria said. They crossed to a traffic island in the
middle of the avenue. It was a sunny afternoon, close enough to lunchtime
so that the brigade of old people who normally occupied the benches had
thinned out. Floria sat down and kicked a crumpled beer can and some
greasy fast-food wrappings back under the bench.
"You look like hell but wide awake at least," Lucille commented.
"Things are still rough," Floria said. "I keep hoping to get my life
under control so I'll have some energy left for Deb and Nick and the kids
when they arrive, but I can't seem to do it. Group was awful last nighta member accused me afterward of having abandoned them all. I think I
have, too. The professional messes and the personal are all related somehow, they run into each other. I should be keeping them apart so I can
deal with them separately, but I can't. I can't concentrate, my mind is all 
S uzy M cKEE C HARNAS ? 22.5
over the place. Except with Dracula, who keeps me riveted with astonishment when he's in the office and bemused the rest of the time."
A bus roared by, shaking the pavement and the benches. Lucille waited
until the noise faded. "Relax about the group. The others would have
defended you if you'd been attacked during the session. They all understand, even if you don't seem to: it's the summer doldrums, people don't
want to work, they expect you to do it all for them. But don't push so
hard. You're not a shaman who can magic your clients back into health."
Floria tore two cans of juice out: of a six-pack and handed one to her.
On a street corner opposite, a violent argument broke out in typewriterfast Spanish between two women. Floria sipped tinny juice and watched.
She'd seen a guy last winter straddle another on that same corner and try
to smash his brains out on the icy sidewalk. The old question again:
What's crazy, what's health?
"It's a good thing you clumped Chubs, anyhow," Lucille said. "I don't
know what finally brought that on, but it's definitely a move in the right
direction. What about Count Dracula ? You don't talk about him much
anymore. I thought I diagnosed a yen for his venerable body."
Floria shifted uncomfortably on the bench and didn't answer. If only
she could deflect Lucille's sharp-eyed curiosity.
"Oh," Lucille said. "I see. You really are hot-or at least warm. Has
he noticed?"
"I don't think so. He's not on the lookout for that kind of response
from me. He says sex with other people doesn't interest him, and I think
he's telling the truth."
"Weird," Lucille said. "What about Vampire on My Couch? Shaping
up all right?"
"It's shaky, like everything else. I'm worried that I don't know how
things are going to come out. I mean, Freud's wolf-man case was a success, as therapy goes. Will my vampire case turn out successfully?"
She glanced at Lucille's puzzled face, made up her mind, and plunged
ahead. "Luce, think of it this way: suppose, just suppose, that my Dracula
is for real, an honest-to-God vampire-"
"Oh shit!" Lucille erupted in anguished exasperation. "Damn it, Floria,
enough is enough-will you stop futzing around and get some help? Coming to pieces yourself and trying to treat this poor nut with a vampire
fixation-how can you do him any good? No wonder you're worried
about his therapy!"
"Please, just listen, help me think this out. My purpose can't be to cure
him of what he is. Suppose vampirism isn't a defense he has to learn to
drop? Suppose it's the core of his identity? Then what do I do?"
Lucille rose abruptly and marched away from her through a gap between the rolling waves of cabs and trucks. Floria caught up with her on
the next block.
"Listen, will you? Luce, you see the problem? I don't need to help him 
226 ?UNICORN TAPESTRY
see who and what he is, he knows that perfectly well, and he's not crazy,
far from it-"
"Maybe not," Lucille said grimly, "but you are. Don't dump this junk
on me outside of office hours, Floria. I don't spend my time listening to
nut-talk unless I'm getting paid."
"Just tell me if this makes psychological sense to you: he's healthier
than most of us because he's always true to his identity, even when he's
engaged in deceiving others. A fairly narrow, rigorous set of requirements
necessary to his survival-that is his identity, and it commands him completely. Anything extraneous could destroy him. To go on living, he has
to act solely out of his own undistorted necessity, and if that isn't authenticity, what is? So he's healthy, isn't he ?" She paused, feeling a sudden
lightness in herself. "And that's the best sense I've been able to make of
this whole business so far."
They were in the middle of the block. Lucille, who could not on her
short legs outwalk Floria, turned on her suddenly. "What the hell do you
think you're doing, calling yourself a therapist? For God's sake, Floria,
don't try to rope me into this kind of professional irresponsibility. You're
j ust dipping into your client's fantasies instead of helping him to handle
them. That's not therapy, it's collusion. Have some sense! Admit you're
over your head in troubles of your own, retreat to firmer ground-go get
treatment for yourself!"
Floria angrily shook her head. When Lucille turned away and hurried
on up the block toward the clinic, . Floria let her go without trying to
detain her.
Thought about Lucille's advice. After my divorce going back into therapy for a while did help, but now? Retreat again to being a client, like
old days in training-so young, inadequate, defenseless then. Awful
prospect. And I'd have to hand over W. to somebody else-who? I'm
not up to handling him, can't cope, too anxious, yet with all that we
do good therapy together somehow. I can't control, can only offer; he's
free to take, refuse, use as suits, as far as he's willing to go. I serve as
resource while he does own therapy-isn't that therapeutic ideal, free
of "shoulds," "shouldn'ts"?
Saw ballet with Mort, lovely evening-time out from W.-talking,
singing, pirouetting all the way home, feeling safe as anything in the
shadow of Mort-mountain; rolled later with that humming (off-key),
sun-warm body. Today W. says he saw me at Lincoln Center last night,
avoided me because of Mort. W. is ballet fan! Started attending to pick
up victims, now also because dance puzzles and pleases.
"When a group dances well, the meaning is easy-the dancers make
a visual complement to the music, all their moves necessary, coherent,
flowing. When a gifted soloist performs, the pleasure of making the
moves is echoed in my own body. The soloist's absorption is total, 
Suzy McKEE C HARNAS ? 227
much like my own in the actions of the hunt. But when a man and a
woman dance together, something else happens. Sometimes one is
hunter, one is prey, or they shift these roles between them. Yet some
other level of significance exists--I suppose to do with sex-and I feel
it-a tugging sensation, here"-touched his solar plexus-"but I do not
understand it."
Worked with his reactions to ballet. The response he feels to pas de
deux is a kind of pull, "Like hunger but not hunger." Of course he's
baffled-Balanchine writes that the pas de deux is always a love story
between man and woman. W. isn't man, isn't woman, yet the drama
connects. His hands hovering as he spoke, fingers spread toward each
other. Pointed this out. Body work comes easier to him now: joined
his hands, interlaced fingers, spolke for hands without prompting: " 'We
are similar, we want the comfort of like closing to like.' " How would
that be for him, to find-likeness, another of his kind? "Female ?" Starts
impatiently explaining how unlikely this is- No, forget sex and pas
de deux for now; just to find your like, another vampire.
He springs up, agitated now. There are none, he insists; adds at once,
"But what would it be like? What would happen? I fear it! " Sits again,
hands clenched. "I long for it."
Silence. He watches goldfish, I watch him. I withhold fatuous attempt
to pin down this insight, if that's what it is-what can I know about
his insight? Suddenly he turns, studies me intently till I lose my nerve,
react, cravenly suggest that if I make him uncomfortable he might wish
to switch to another therapist-
"Certainly not." More follows, all gold: "There is value to me in
what we do here, Dr. Landauer, much against my earlier expectations.
Although people talk appreciatively of honest speech they generally
avoid it, and I myself have found scarcely any use for it at all. Your
straightforwardness with me-and the straightforwardness you require
in return-this is healthy in a life so dependent on deception as mine."
Sat there, wordless, much moved, thinking of what I don't show
him-my upset life, seat-of-pants course with him and attendant strain,
attraction to him-I'm holding out on him while he appreciates my
honesty.
Hesitation, then lower-voiced, "Also, there are limits on my methods
of self-discovery, short of turning myself over to a laboratory for vivisection. I have no others like myself to look at and learn from. Any
tools that may help are worth much to me, and these games of yours
are-potent." Other stuff besides, not important. Important: he moves
me and he draws me and he keeps on coming back. Hang in if he does.
Bad night- Kenny's aunt called: no bill from me this month, so if he's
not seeing me who's keeping an eye on him, where's he hanging out? 
228 ?
?Jl)}IJJ UNICORN TAPESTRY
Much implied blame for what might happen. Absurd, but shook me
up: I did fail Kenny. Called off group this week also; too much.
No, it was a good night-first dream in months I can recall, contact
again with own depths-but disturbing. Dreamed myself in cab with
W. in place of the woman from the Y. He put his hand not on my
neck but breast-! felt intense sensual response in the dream, also anger
and fear so strong they woke me.
Thinking about this: anyone leans toward him sexually, to him a
sign his hunting technique has maneuvered prospective victim into
range, maybe arouses his appetite for blood. I don't want that. "She
was food." I am not food, I am a person. No thrill at languishing away
in his arms in a taxi while he drinks my blood-that's disfigured sex,
masochism. My sex response in dream signaled to me I would be his
victim-! rejected that, woke up.
Mention of Dracula (novel). W. dislikes: meandering, inaccurate, those
absurd fangs. Says he himself has a sort of needle under his tongue,
used to pierce skin. No offer to demonstrate, and no request from me.
I brightly brought up historical Vlad Dracul-celebrated instance of
Turkish envoys who, upon refusing to uncover to Vlad to show respect,
were killed by spiking their hats to their skulls. "Nonsense," snorts W.
"A clever ruler would use very small thumbtacks and dismiss the envoys
to moan about the streets of Varna holding their tacked heads." First
spontaneous play he's shown-took head in hands and uttered plaintive
groans, "Ow, oh, ooh." I cracked up. W. reverted at once to usual
dignified manner. "You can see that this would serve the ruler much
more effectively as an object lesson against rash pride."
Later, same light vein: "I know why I'm a vampire; why are you a
therapist?" Off balance as usual, said things about helping, mental
health, etc. He shook his head: "And people think of a vampire as
arrogant! You want to perform cures in a world which exhibits very
little health of any kind-and it's the same arrogance with all of you.
This one wants to be President or Class Monitor or Department Chairman or Union Boss, another must be first to fly to the stars or to
transplant the human brain, and on and on. As for me, I wish only to
satisfy my appetite in peace."
And those of us whose appetite is for competence, for effectiveness?
Thought of Green, treated eight years ago, went on to be indicted for
running a hellish "home" for aged. I had helped him stay functional
so he could destroy the helpless for profit.
W. not my first predator, only most honest and direct. Scared; not
of attack by W., but of process we're going through. I'm beginning to
be up to it ( ?), but still-utterly unpredictable, impossible to handle or
manage. Occasional stirrings of inward choreographer that used to
shape my work so surely. Have I been afraid of that, holding it down 
in myself, choosing mechanical manipulatiOn instead? Not a choice
with W.-thinking no good, strategy no good, nothing left but instinct,
clear and uncluttered responses if I can find them. Have to be my own
authority with him, as he is always his own authority with a world in
which he's unique. So work with W. not j ust exhausting-exhilarating
too, along with strain, fear.
Am I growing braver? Not much choice.
Park again today (air-conditioning out at office). Avoiding Lucille's
phone calls from clinic (very reassuring that she calls despite quarrel,
but don't want to take all this up with her again). Also meeting W. in
open feels saner somehow-wild creatures belong outdoors? Sailboat
pond N. of 72nd, lots of kids, garbage, one beautiful tall boat drifting.
We wdlked.
W. maintains he remembers no childhood, no parents. I told him my
astonishment, confronted by someone who never had a life of the previous generation (even adopted parent) shielding him from death-how
naked we stand when the last shield falls. Got caught in remembering
a death dream of mine, dream it now and then-couldn't concentrate,
got scared, spoke of it-a dog tumbled under a passing truck, ejected
to side of the road where it lay unable to move except to lift head and
shriek; couldn't help. Shaking nearly to tears-remembered Mother got
into dream somehow-had blocked that at first. Didn't say it now.
Tried to rescue situation, show W. how to work with a dream (sitting
in vine arbor near band shell, some privacy).
He focused on my obvious shakiness: "The air vibrates constantly
with the death cries of countless animals large and small. What is the
death of one dog?" Leaned close, speaking quietly, instructing. "Many
creatures are dying in ways too dreadful to imagine. I am part of the
world; I listen to the pain. You people claim to be above all that. You
deafen yourselves with your own noise and pretend there's nothing else
to hear. Then these screams enter your dreams, and you have to seek
therapy because you have lost the nerve to listen."
Remembered myself, said, Be a dying animal. He refused: "You are
the one who dreams this." I had a horrible flash, felt I was the dog-­
helpless, doomed, hurting-burst into tears. The great therapist, bringing her own hangups into session with client! Enraged with self, which
did not help stop bawling.
W. disconcerted, I think; didn't speak. People walked past, glanced
over, ignored us. W. said finally, "What is this?" Nothing, just the fear
of death. "Oh, the fear of death. That's with me all the time. One
must simply get used to it." Tears into laughter. Goddamn wisdom of
the ages. He got up to go, pause:d: "And tell that stupid little man who
used to precede me at your office to stop following me around. He
puts himself in danger that way." 
'>':) .?
'1)\l 'C 230 -? UNICORN TAPESTRY
Kenny, damn it! Aunt doesn't know where he is, no answer on his
phone. Idiot!
Sketching all night-useless. W. beautiful beyond the scope of linethe beauty of singularity, cohesion, rooted in absolute devotion to demands of his specialized body. In feeding (woman in taxi) utter absorption one wants from a man in sex-no score-keeping, no fantasies, j ust
hot urgency of appetite, of senses, the moment by itself.
His sleeves worn rolled back today to the elbows-strong, sculptural
forearms, the long bones curved in slightly, suggest torque, leverage.
How old?
Endurance: huge, rich cloak of time flows back from his shoulders
like wings of a dark angel. All springs from, elaborates, the single,
stark, primary condition: he is a predator who subsists on human
blood. Harmony, strength, clarity, magnificence-all from that basic
animal integrity. Of course I long for all that, here in the higgledypiggledy hodgepodge of my life! Of course he draws me!
Wore no perfume today, deference to his keen, easily insulted sense of
smell. He noticed at once, said curt thanks. Saw something bothering
him, opened my mouth seeking desperately for right thing to say-up
rose my inward choreographer, wide awake, and spoke plain from my
heart: thinking on my floundering in some of our sessions-! am aware
that you see this confusion of mine. I know you see by your occasional
impatient look, sudden disengagement-yet you continue to reveal yourself to me (even shift our course yourself if it needs shifting and I don't
do it). I think I know why. Because there's no place for you in world
as you truly are. Because beneath your various fa'<ades your true self
suffers; like all true selves, it wants, needs to be honored as real and
valuable through acceptance by another. I try to be that other, but
often you are beyond me.
He rose, paced to window, looked back, burning at me. "If I seem
sometimes restless or impatient, Dr. Landauer, it's not because of any
professional shortcomings of yours. On the contrary-you are all too
effective. The seductiveness, the distraction of our-human contact
worries me. I fear for the ruthlessness that keeps me alive."
Speak for ruthlessness. He shook his head. Saw tightness in shoulders, feet braced hard against floor. Felt reflected tension in my own
muscles.
Prompted him: " 'I resent ... ' "
"I resent your pretension to teach me about myself! What will this
work that you do here make of me? A predator paralyzed by an unwanted empathy with his prey? A creature fit only for a cage and
keeper?" He was breathing hard, jaw set. I saw suddenly the truth of
his fear: his integrity is not human, but my work is specifically human, 
() :? Suzy McKEE CHARNAs L? 231
designed to make humans more human-what if it does that to him?
Should have setn it before, should have seen it. No place left to go:
had to ask him, in small voice, Speak for my pretension.
"No!" Eyes shut, head turned away.
Had to do it: Speak for me.
W. whispered, "As to the unicorn, out of your own legends-'Unicorn, come lay your head in my lap while the hunters close in. You
are a wonder, and for love of wonder I will tame you. You are pursued,
but forget your pursuers, rest under my hand till they come and destroy
you.' " Looked at me like steel: "Do you see ? The more you involve
yourself in what I am, the more you become the peasant with the
torch!"
Two days later Doug came into town and had lunch with Floria.
He was a man of no outstanding beauty who was nevertheless attractive: he didn't have much chin and his ears were too big, but you didn't
notice because of his air of confidence. His stability had been earned the
hard way-as a gay man facing the straight world. Some of his strength
had been attained with effort and pain in a group that Floria had run
years earlier. A lasting affection had grown between herself and Doug.
She was intensely glad to see him.
They ate near the clinic. "You look a little frayed around the edges,"
Doug said. "I heard about Jane Fennerman's relapse-too bad."
"I've only been able to bring myself to visit her once since."
"Feeling guilty?"
She hesitated, gnawing on a stalle breadstick. The truth was, she hadn't
thought of Jane Fennerman in weeks. Finally she said, "I guess I must be."
Sitting back with his hands in his pockets, Doug chided her gently. "It's
got to be Jane's fourth or fifth time into the nuthatch, and the others
happened when she was in the care of other therapists. Who are you to
imagine-to demand-that her cure lay in your hands? God may be a
woman, Floria, but She is not you. I thought the whole point was some
recognition of individual responsibility-you for yourself, the client for
himself or herself."
"That's what we're always saying," Floria agreed. She felt curiously
divorced from this conversation. It had an old-fashioned flavor. Before
Weyland. She smiled a little.
The waiter ambled over. She ordered bluefish. The serving would be
too big for her depressed appetite, but Doug wouldn't be satisfied with
his customary order of salad (he never was) and could be persuaded to
help out.
He worked his way around to Topic A. "When I called to set up this
lunch, Hilda told me she's got a crush on Weyland. How are you and he
getting along?"
"My God, Doug, now you're going to tell me this whole thing was to 
232 ? \\)j}¥JI UNICORN TAPESTRY
fix me up with an eligible suitor!" She winced at her own rather strained
laughter. "How soon are you planning to ask Weyland to work at Cayslin again?"
"I don't know, but probably sooner than I thought a couple of months
ago. We hear that he's been exploring an attachment to an anthropology
department at a Western school, some niche where I guess he feels he can
have less responsibility, less visability, and a chance to collect himself.
Naturally, this news is making people at Cayslin suddenly eager to nail
him down for us. Have you a recommendation?"
"Yes," she said. "Wait."
He gave her an inquiring look. "What for?"
"Until he works more fully through certain stresses in the situation at
Cayslin. Then I'll be ready to commit myself about him." The bluefish
came. She pretended distraction: "Good God, that's too much fish for me.
Doug, come on and help me out here."
Hilda was crouched over Floria's file drawer. She straightened up, looking
grim. "Somebody's been in the office !"
What was this, had someone attacked her? The world took on a cockeyed, dangerous tilt. "Are you okay?"
"Yes, sure, I mean there are records that have been gone through. I
can tell. I've started checking and so far it looks as if none of the files
themselves are missing. But if any papers were taken out of them, that
would be pretty hard to spot without reading every folder in the place.
Your files, Floria. I don't think anybody else's were touched."
Mere burglary; weak with relief, Floria sat down on one of the waitingroom chairs. But only her files? "Just my stuff, you're sure ?"
Hilda nodded. "The clinic got hit, too. I called. They see some newlooking scratches on the lock of your file drawer over there. Listen, you
want me to call the cops?"
"First check as much as you can, see if anything obvious is missing."
There was no sign of upset in her office. She found a phone message
on her table: Weyland had canceled his next appointment. She knew who
had broken into her files.
She buzzed Hilda's desk. "Hilda, let's leave the police out of it for the
moment. Keep checking." She stood in the middle of the office, looking
at the chair replacing the one he had broken, looking at the window
where he had so often watched.
Relax, she told herself. There was nothing for him to find here or at
the clinic.
She signaled that she was ready for the first client of the afternoon.
That evening she came back to the office after having dinner with friends.
She was supposed to be helping set up a workshop for next month, and 
:)>.'i) :c Suzy McKEE CHARNAS ,\.- 233
she'd been putting off even thinking about it, let alone doing any real
work, She set herself to compiling a suggested bibliography for her section.
The phone light blinked.
It was Kenny, sounding muffled and teary. "I'm sorry," he moaned.
"The medicine just started to wear off. I've been trying to call you everyplace. God, I'm so scared-he was waiting in the alley."
"Who was?" she said, dry-mouthed. She knew.
"Him. The tall one, the faggot--only he goes with women too, I've
seen him. He grabbed me. He hurt me. I was lying there a long time. I
couldn't do anything. I felt so funny-like floating away. Some kids found
me. Their mother called the cops. I was so cold, so scared-"
"Kenny, where are you?"
He told her which hospital. "Listen, I think he's really crazy, you know?
And I'm scared he might ... you live alone ... I don't ·know-I didn't
mean to make trouble for you. I'm so scared."
God damn you, you meant exactly to make trouble for me, and now
you've bloody well made it. She got him to ring for a nurse. By "alling
Kenny her patient and using "Dr." in front of her own name without
qualifying the title she got some information: two broken ribs, multiple
contusions, a badly wrenched shoulder, and a deep cut on the scalp which
Dr. Wells thought accounted for the blood loss the patient had sustained.
Picked up early today, the patient wouldn't say who had attacked him.
You can check with Dr. Wells tomorrow, Dr.-?
Can Weyland think I've somehow sicked Kenny on him? No, he surely
knows me better than that. Kenny must have brought this on himself.
She tried Weyland's number and then the desk at his hotel. He had
closed his account and gone, providing no forwarding information other
than the address of a university in New Mexico.
Then she remembered: this was the night Deb and Nick and the kids
were arriving. Oh, God. Next phone call. The Americana was the hotel
Deb had mentioned. Yes, Mr. and Mrs. Nicholas Redpath were registered
in room whatnot. Ring, please.
Deb's voice came shakily on the line. "I've been trying to call you."
Like Kenny.
"You sound upset," Floria said, steadying herself for whatever calamity
had descended: illness, accident, assault in the streets of the dark, degenerate city.
Silence, then a raggedy sob. "Nick's not here. I didn't phone you earlier
because I thought he still might come, but I don't think he's coming,
Mom." Bitter weeping.
"Oh, Debbie. Debbie, listen, you just sit tight, I'll be right down there."
The cab ride took only a few minutes. Debbie was still crying when
Floria stepped into the room.
"I don't know, I don't know," Deb wailed, shaking her head. "What
did I do wrong? He went away a week ago, to do some research, he said, 
234 rt7:i0l
?)_!.)}lJI UNICORN TAPESTRY
and I didn't hear from him, and half the bank money is gone-just half,
he left me half. I kept hoping ... they say most runaways come back in
a few days or call up, they get lonely ... I haven't told anybody-!
thought since we were supposed to be here at this Gonvention thing together, I'd better come, maybe he'd show up. But nobody's seen him, and
there are no messages, not a word, nothing."
"All right, all right, poor Deb," Floria said, hugging her.
"Oh God, I'm going to wake the kids with all this howling." Deb pulled
away, making a frantic gesture toward the door of the adjoining room.
"It was so hard to get them to sleep-they were expecting Daddy to be
here, I kept telling them he'd be here." She rushed out into the hotel
hallway. Floria followed, propping the door open with one of her shoes
since she didn't know whether Deb had a key with her or not. They stood
out there together, ignoring passersby, huddling over Deb's weeping.
"What's been going on between you and Nick?" Floria said. "Have
you two been sleeping together lately?"
Deb let out a squawk of agonized embarrassment, "Mo-ther!" and
pulled away from her. Oh, hell, wrong approach.
"Come on, I'll help you pack. We'll leave word you're at my place. Let
Nick come looking for you." Floria firmly squashed down the miserable
inner cry, How am I going to stand this?
"Oh, no, I can't move till morning now that I've got the kids settled
down. Besides, there's one night's deposit on the rooms. Oh, Mom, what
did I do?"
"You didn't do anything, hon," Floria said, patting her shoulder and
thinking in some part of her mind, Oh boy, that's great, is that the best
you can come up with in a crisis with all your training and experience?
Your touted professional skills are not so hot lately, but this bad? Another
part answered. Shut up, stupid, only an idiot does therapy on her own
family. Deb's come to her mother, not to a shrink, so go ahead and be
Mommy. If only Mommy had less pressure on her right now-but that
was always the way: everything at once or nothing at all.
"Look, Deb, suppose I stay the night here with you."
Deb shook the pale, damp-streaked hair out of her eyes with a determined, grown-up gesture. "No, thanks, Mom. I'm so tired I'm just going
to fall out now. You'll be getting a bellyful of all this when we move in
on you tomorrow anyway. I can manage tonight, and besides-"
And besides, just in case Nick showed up, Deb didn't want Floria
around complicating things; of course. Or in case the tooth fairy
dropped by.
Floria restrained an impulse to insist on staying; an impulse, she recognized, that came from her own need not to be alone tonight. That was
not something to load on Deb's already burdened shoulders.
"Okay," Floria said. "But look, Deb, I'll expect you to call me up first 
Suzy McKEE C HARNAS :)?:0 :z 235
thing in the morning, whatever happens." And if I'm still alive, I'll answer
the phone.
All the way home in the cab she knew with growing certainty that Weyland would be waiting for her there. He can't just walk away, she thought;
he has to finish things with me. So let's get it over.
In the tiled hallway she hesitated, keys in hand. What about calling the
cops to go inside with her ? Absurd. You don't set the cops on a unicorn.
She unlocked and opened the door to the apartment and called inside,
"Weyland! Where are you?"
Nothing. Of course not-the door was still open, and he would want
to be sure she was by herself. She stepped inside, shut the door and
snapped on a lamp as she walked into the living room.
He was sitting quietly on a radiator cover by the street window, his
hands on his thighs. His appearance here in a new setting, her setting,
this faintly lit room in her home place, was startlingly intimate. She was
sharply aware of the whisper of movement-his clothing, his shoe soles
against the carpet underfoot-as he shifted his posture.
"What would you have done if I'd brought somebody with me?" she
said unsteadily. "Changed yourself into a bat and flown away?"
"Two things I must have from you," he said. "One is the bill of health
that we spoke of when we began,, though not, after all, for Cayslin College. I've made other plans. The story of my disappearance has of course
filtered out along the academic grapevine so that even two thousand miles
from here people will want evidence of my mental soundness. Your evidence. I would type it myself and forge your signature, but I want your
authentic tone and language. Please prepare a letter to the desired effect,
addressed to these people."
He drew something white from an inside pocket and held it out. She
advanced and took the envelope from his extended hand. It was from the
Western anthropology department that Doug had mentioned at lunch.
"Why not Cayslin?" she said. "They want you there."
"Have you forgotten your own suggestion that I find another job? That
was a good idea after all. Your reference will serve me best out therewith a copy for my personnel file at Cayslin, naturally."
She put her purse down on the seat of a chair and crossed her arms.
She felt reckless-the effect of stress and weariness, she thought, but it
was an exciting feeling.
"The receptionist at the office does this sort of thing for me," she said.
He pointed. "I've been in your study. You have a typewriter there, you
have stationery with your letterht:ad, you have carbon paper."
"What was the second thing you wanted?"
"Your notes on my case."
"Also at the-"
"You know that I've already searched both your work places, and the 
236 ?
?).:.)}!JI UNICORN TAPESTRY
very circumspect jottings in your file on me are not what I mean. Others
must exist: more detailed."
"What makes you think that?"
"How could you resist?" He mocked her. "You have encountered nothing like me in your entire professional life, and never shall again. Perhaps
you hope to produce an article someday, even a book-a memoir of
something impossible that happened to you one summer. You're an ambitious woman, Dr. Landauer."
Floria squeezed her crossed arms tighter against herself to quell her
shivering. "This is all just supposition," she said.
He took folded papers from his pocket, some of her thrown-aside notes
on him, salvaged from the wastebasket. "I found these. I think there must
be more. Whatever there is, give it to me, please."
"And if I refuse, what will you do? Beat me up the way you beat
up Kenny?"
Weyland said calmly, "I told you he should stop following me. This is
serious now. There are pursuers who intend me ill-my former captors,
of whom I told you. Whom do you think I keep watch for? No records
concerning me must fall into their hands. Don't bother protesting to me
your devotion to confidentiality. There is a man named Alan Reese who
would take what he wants and be damned to your professional ethics. So
I must destroy all evidence you have about me before I leave the city."
Floria turned away and sat down by the coffee table, trying to think
beyond her fear. She breathed deeply against the fright trembling in her
chest.
"I see," he said dryly, "that you won't give me the notes; you don't
trust me to take them and go. You see some danger."
"All right, a bargain," she said. "I'll give you whatever I have on your
case if in return you promise to go straight out to your new job and keep
away from Kenny and my offices and anybody connected with me-"
He was smiling slightly as he rose from the seat and stepped soft-footed
toward her over the rug. "Bargains, promises, negotiations-all foolish,
Dr. Landauer. I want what I came for."
She looked up at him. "But then how can I trust you at all? As soon
as I give you what you want-"
"What is it that makes you afraid-that you can't render me harmless
to you? What a curious concern you show suddenly for your own life
and the lives of those around you! You are the one who led me to take
chances in our work together-to explore the frightful risks of selfrevelation. Didn't you see in the air between us the brilliant shimmer of
those hazards? I thought your business was not smoothing the world over
but adventuring into it, discovering its true nature, and closing valiantly
with everything jagged, cruel, and deadly."
In the midst of her terror the inner choreographer awoke and stretched.
Floria rose to face the vampire. 
Suzy M cK EE CHARNAS ? 237
"All right, Weyland, no bargains. I'll give you freely what you want."
Of course she couldn't make herself safe from him-or make Kenny or
Lucille or Deb or Doug safe-any more than she could protect Jane Fennerman from the common dangers of life. Like Weyland, some dangers
were too strong to bind or banish. "My notes are in the workroom-­
come on, I'll show you. As for the letter you need, I'll type it right now
and you can take it away with you."
She sat at the typewriter arranging paper, carbon sheets, and white-out,
and feeling the force of his presence. Only a few feet away, j ust at the
margin of the light from the gooseneck lamp by which she worked, he
leaned against the edge of the long table that was twin to the table in her
office. Open in his large hands was the notebook she had given him from
the table drawer. When he moved his head over the notebook's pages,
his glasses glinted.
She typed the heading and the date. How surprising, she thought, to
find that she had regained her nerve here, and now. When you dance as
the inner choreographer directs, you act without thinking, not in command of events but in harmony with them. You yield control, accepting
the chance that a mistake might be part of the design. The inner choreographer is always right but often dangerous: giving up control means accepting the possibility of death. What I feared I have pursued right here
to this moment in this room.
A sheet of paper fell out of the notebook. Weyland stooped and caught
it up, glanced at it. "You had training in art?" Must be a sketch.
"I thought once I might be an artist," she said.
"What you chose to do instead is better," he said. "This making of
pictures, plays, all art, is pathetic. The world teems with creation, most
of it unnoticed by your kind j ust as most of the deaths are unnoticed.
What can be the point of adding yet another tiny gesture? Even you, these
notes-for what, a moment's celebrity?"
"You tried it yourself," Floria said. "The book you edited, Notes on a
Vanished People. " She typed: " ... temporary dislocation resulting from
a severe personal shock ... "
"That was professional necessity, not creation," he said in the tone of
a lecturer irritated by a question from the audience. With disdain he tossed
the drawing on the table. "Remember, I don't share your impulse toward
artistic gesture-your absurd frills--"
She looked up sharply. "The ballet, Weyland. Don't lie." She typed:
" ... exhibits a powerful drive toward inner balance and wholeness in a
difficult life situation. The steadying influence of an extraordinary basic
integrity ... "
He set the notebook aside. "My feeling for ballet is clearly some sort
of aberration. Do you sigh to hear a cow calling in a pasture ?"
"There are those who have wept to hear whales singing in the ocean."
He was silent, his eyes averted. 
238 ?
?)l)}JJJ UNICORN T AP FSTR Y
"This is finished," she said. "Do you want to read it?"
He took the letter. "Good," he said at length. "Sign it, please. And
type an envelope for it." He stood closer, but out of arm's reach, while
she complied. "You seem less frightened."
"I'm terrified but not paralyzed," she said and laughed, but the laugh
came out a gasp.
"Fear is useful. It has kept you at your best throughout our association.
Have you a stamp?"
Then there was nothing to do but take a deep breath, turn off the
gooseneck lamp, and follow him back into the living room. "What now,
Weyland?" she said softly. "A carefully arranged suicide so that I have
no chance to retract what's in that letter or to reconstruct my notes?"
At the window again, always on watch at the window, he said, "Your
doorman was sleeping in the lobby. He didn't see me enter the building.
Once inside, I used the stairs, of course. The suicide rate among therapists
is notoriously high. I looked it up."
"You have everything all planned?"
The window was open. He reached out and touched the metal grille
that guarded it. One end of the grille swung creaking outward into the
night air, like a gate opening. She visualized him sitting there waiting for
her to come home, his powerful fingers patiently working the bolts at that
side of the grille loose from the brick-and-mortar window frame. The hair
lifted on the back of her neck.
He turned toward her again. She could see the end of the letter she had
given him sticking palely out of his jacket pocket.
"Floria," he said meditatively. "An unusual name-is it after the heroine of Sardou's Tasca? At the end, doesn't she throw herself to her death
from a high castle wall? People are careless about the names they give
their children. I will not drink from you-I hunted today, and I fed. Still,
to leave you living ... is too dangerous."
A fire engine tore past below, siren screaming. When it had gone Floria
said, "Listen, Weyland, you said it yourself: I can't make myself safe from
you-I'm not strong enough to shove you out the window instead of
being shoved out myself. Must you make yourself safe from me? Let me
say this to you, without promises, demands, or pleadings: I will not go
back on what I wrote in that letter. I will not try to re-create my notes.
I mean it. Be content with that."
"You tempt me to it," he murmured after a moment, "to go from here
with you still alive behind me for the remainder of your little life-to
leave woven into Dr. Landauer's quick mind those threads of my own
life that I pulled for her ... I want to be able sometimes to think of you
thinking of me. But the risk is very great."
"Sometimes it's right to let the dangers live, to give them their place,"
she urged. "Didn't you tell me yourself a little while ago how risk makes
us more heroic?" 
Suzy McKEE CHARNAS ? 239
He looked amused. "Are you instructing me in the virtues of danger?
You are brave enough to know something, perhaps, about that, but I
have studied danger all my life."
"A long, long life with more to come," she said, desperate to make him
understand and believe her. "Not mine to jeopardize. There's no torchbrandishing peasant here; we left that behind long ago. Remember when
you spoke for me? You said, 'For love of wonder.' That was true."
He leaned to turn off the lamp near the window. She thought that
he had made up his mind, and that when he straightened it would be
to spring.
But instead of terror locking her limbs, from the inward choreographer
came a rush of warmth and energy into her muscles and an impulse to
turn toward him. Out of a harmony of desires she said swiftly, "Weyland,
come to bed with me."
She saw his shoulders stiffen against the dim square of the window,
his head lift in scorn. "You know I can't be bribed that way," he said
contemptuously. "What are you up to? Are you one of those who come
into heat at the sight of an upraised fist?"
"My life hasn't twisted me that badly, thank God," she retorted. "And
if you've known all along how scared I've been, you must have sensed
my attraction to you too, so you know it goes back to-very early in our
work. But we're not at work now, and I've given up being 'up to' anything. My feeling is real-not a bribe, or a ploy, or a kink. No 'love me
now, kill me later,' nothing like that. Understand me, Weyland: if death
is your answer, than let's get right to it-come ahead and try."
Her mouth was dry as paper. He said nothing and made no move; she
pressed on. "But if you can let me go, if we can simply part company here,
then this is how I would like to mark the ending of our time together.
This is the completion I want. Surely you feel something, too-curiosity
at least?"
"Granted, your emphasis on the expressiveness of the body has instructed me," he admitted, and then he added lightly, "Isn't it extremely
unprofessional to proposition a client?"
"Extremely, and I never do; but this, now, feels right. For you to indulge
in courtship that doesn't end in a meal would be unprofessional, too, but
how would it feel to indulge anyway-this once? Since we started, you've
pushed me light-years beyond my profession. Now I want to travel all
the way with you, Weyland. Let's be unprofessional together."
She turned and went into the bedroom, leaving the lights off. There
was a reflected light, cool and diffuse, from the glowing night air of the
great city. She sat down on the bed and kicked off her shoes. When she
looked up, he was in the doorway.
Hesitantly, he halted a few feet from her in the dimness, then came and
sat beside her. He would have lain down in his clothes, but she said 
/ >,':) ·
·
1
1 )\J r 240 -- UNICORN TAPESTRy
quietly, "You can undress. The front door's locked and there isn't anyone
here but us. You won't have to leap up and flee for your life."
He stood again and began to take off his clothes, which he draped
neatly over a chair. He said, "Suppose I am fertile with you; could you
conceive ?"
By her own choice any such possibility had been closed off after Deb.
She said, "No," and that seemed to satisfy him.
She tossed her own clothes onto the dresser.
He sat down next to her again, his body silvery in the reflected light
and smooth, lean as a whippet and as roped with muscle. His cool thigh
pressed against her own fuller, warmer one as he leaned across her and
carefully deposited his glasses on the bedtable. Then he turned toward
her, and she could just make out two puckerings of tissue on his skin:
bullet scars, she thought, shivering.
He said, "But why do I wish to do this?"
"Do you?" She had to hold herself back from touching him.
"Yes." He stared at her. "How did you grow so real? The more I spoke
to you of myself, the more real you became."
"No more speaking, Weyland," she said gently. "This is body work."
He lay back on the bed.
She wasn't afraid to take the lead. At the very least she could do for
him as well as he did for himself, and at the most, much better. Her own
skin was darker than his, a shadowy contrast where she browsed over his
body with her hands. Along the contours of his ribs she felt knotted
places, hollows-old healings, the tracks of time. The tension of his muscles under her touch and the sharp sound of his breathing stirred her. She
lived the fantasy of sex with an utter stranger; there was no one in the
world so much a stranger as he. Yet there was no one who knew him as
well as she did, either. If he was unique, so was she, and so was their
confluence here.
The vividness of the moment inflamed her. His body responded. His
penis stirred, warmed, and thickened in her hand. He turned on his hip
so that they lay facing each other, he on his right side, she on her left.
When she moved to kiss him he swiftly averted his face: of course-to
him, the mouth was for feeding. She touched her fingers to his lips, signifying her comprehension.
He offered no caresses but closed his arms around her, his hands cradling the back of her head and neck. His shadowed face, deep-hollowed
under brow and cheekbone, was very close to hers. From between the
parted lips that she must not kiss his quick breath came, roughened by
groans of pleasure. At length he pressed his head against hers, inhaling
deeply; taking her scent, she thought, from her hair and skin.
He entered her, hesitant at first, probing slowly and tentatively. She
found this searching motion intensely sensuous, and clinging to him all
along his sinewy length she rocked with him through two long swelling 
Suzy McKEE CHARNAS ? 241
waves of swe(?tness. Still half submerged, she felt him strain tight against
her, she heard him gasp through his clenched teeth.
Panting, they subsided and lay lloosely interlocked. His head was tilted
back; his eyes were closed. She had no desire to stroke him or to speak
with him, only to rest spent against his body and absorb the sounds of
his breathing, her breathing.
He did not lie long to hold or be held. Without a word he disengaged
his body from hers and got up. He moved quietly about the bedroom,
gathering his clothing, his shoes, the drawings, the notes from the workroom. He dressed without lights. She listened in silence from the center
of a deep repose.
There was no leavetaking. His tall figure passed and repassed the dark
rectangle of the doorway, and then he was gone. The latch on the front
door clicked shut.
Floria thought of getting up to secure the deadbolt. Instead she turned
on her stomach and slept.
She woke as she remembered coming out of sleep as a youngster-peppy
and clearheaded.
"Hilda, let's give the police a call about that break-in. If anything ever
does come of it, I want to be on record as having reported it. You can
tell them we don't have any idea who did it or why. And please make a
photocopy of this letter carbon to send to Doug Sharpe up at Cayslin.
Then you can put the carbon into Weyland's file and close it."
Hilda sighed. "Well, he was too old anyway."
He wasn't, my dear, but never mind.
In her office Floria picked up the morning's mail from her table. Her
glance strayed to the window where Weyland had so often stood. God,
she was going to miss him; and God, how good it was to be restored to
plain working days.
Only not yet. Don't let the phone ring, don't let the world push in here
now. She needed to sit alone for a little and let her mind sort through
the images left from ... from the pas de deux with Weyland. It's the
notorious morning after, old dear., she told herself; just where have I been
dancing, anyway?
In a clearing in the enchanted forest with the unicorn, of course, but
not the way the old legends have it. According to them, hunters set a
virgin to attract the unicorn by her chastity so they can catch and kill
him. My unicorn was the chaste one, come to think of it, and this lady
meant no treachery. No, Weyland and I met hidden from the hunt, to
celebrate a private mystery of our own ....
Your mind grappled with my mind, my dark leg over your silver one,
unlike closing with unlike across whatever likeness may be found: your
memory pressing on my thoughts, my words drawing out your words in 
242 ?UNICORN TAPESTRY
which you may recognize your life, my smooth palm gliding down your
smooth flank . . .
Why, this will make me cry, she thought, blinking. And for what? Does
an afternoon with the unicorn have any meaning for the ordinary days
that come later? What has this passage with Weyland left me? Have I
anything in my hands now besides the morning's mail?
What I have in my hands is my own strength, because I had to reach
deep to find the strength to match him.
She put down the letters, noticing how on the backs of her hands the
veins stood, blue shadows, under the thin skin. How can these hands be
strong? Time was beginning to wear them thin and bring up the fragile
inner structure in clear relief. That was the meaning of the last parent's
death: that the child's remaining time has a limit of its own.
But not for Weyland. No graveyards of family dead lay behind him, no
obvious and implacable ending of his own span threatened him. Time has
to be different for a creature of an enchanted forest, as morality has to
be different. He was a predator and a killer formed for a life of centuries,
not decades; of secret singularity, not the busy hum of the herd. Yet his
strength, suited to that nonhuman life, had revived her own strength. Her
hands were slim, no longer youthful, but she saw now that they were
strong enough.
For what? She flexed her fingers, watching the tendons slide under the
skin. Strong hands don't have to clutch. They can simply open and let go.
She dialed Lucille's extension at the clinic.
"Luce? Sorry to have missed your calls lately. Listen, I want to start
making arrangements to transfer my practice for a while. You were right,
I do need a break, just as all my friends have been telling me. Will you
pass the word for me to the staff over there today? Good, thanks. Also,
there's the workshop coming up next month .... Yes. Are you kidding?
They'd love to have you in my place. You're not the only one who's
noticed that I've been falling apart, you know. It's awfully soon-can you
manage, do you think? Luce, you are a brick and a lifesaver and all that
stuff that means I'm very, very grateful."
Not so terrible, she thought, but only a start. Everything else remained
to be dealt with. The glow of euphoria couldn't carry her for long. Already, looking down, she noticed jelly on her blouse, just like old times,
and she didn't even remember having breakfast. If you want to keep the
strength you've found in all this, you're going to have to get plenty of
practice being strong. Try a tough one now.
She phoned Deb. "Of course you slept late, so what? I did, too, so I'm
glad you didn't call and wake me up. Whenever you're ready-if you
need help moving uptown from the hotel, I can cancel here and come
down .... Well, call if you change your mind. I've left a house key for
you with my doorman.
"And listen, hon, I've been thinking-how about all of us going up 
Suzy McKEE CHARNAS ? 243
together to Nonnie's over the weekend? Then when you feel like it maybe
you'd like to talk about what you'll do next. Yes, I've already started
setting up some free time for myself. Think about it, love. Talk to you
later."
Kenny's turn. "Kenny, I'll come by during visiting hours this
afternoon."
"Are you okay?" he squeaked.
"I'm okay. But I'm not your mommy, Ken, and I'm not going to start
trying to hold the big bad world off you again. I'll expect you to be ready
to settle down seriously and choose a new therapist for yourself. We're
going to get that done today once and for all. Have you got that?"
After a short silence he answered in a desolate voice, "All right."
"Kenny, nobody grown up has a mommy around to take care of things
for them and keep them safe-not even me. You just h ave to be tough
enough and brave enough yourself. See you this afternoon."
How about Jane Fennerman? No, leave it for now, we are not Wonder
Woman, we can't handle that stress today as well.
Too restless to settle down to paperwork before the day's round of
appointments began, she got up and fed the goldfish, then drifted to the
window and looked out over the city. Same jammed-up traffic down there,
same dusty summer park stretching away uptown-yet not the same city,
because Weyland no longer hunted there. Nothing like him moved now
in those deep, grumbling streets. She would never come upon anyone there
as alien as he-and just as well. Let last night stand as the end, unique
and inimitable, of their affair. She was glutted with strangeness and looked
forward frankly to sharing again in Mort's ordinary human appetite.
And Weyland-how would he do in that new and distant hunting ground
he had found for himself? Her own balance had been changed. Suppose
his once perfect, solitary equilibrium had been altered too? Perhaps he
had spoiled it by involving himself too intimately with another beingherself. And then he had left her alive-a terrible risk. Was this a sign of
his corruption at her hands?
"Oh, no," she whispered fiercely, focusing her vision on her reflection
in the smudged window glass. Oh, no, I am not the temptress. I am not
the deadly female out of legends whose touch defiles the hitherto unblemished being, her victim. If Weyland found some human likeness in himself,
that had to be in him to begin with. Who said he was defiled anyway?
Newly discovered capacities can be either strengths or weaknesses, depending on how you use them.
Very pretty and reassuring, she thought grimly; but it's pure cant. Am
I going to retreat now into mechanical analysis to make myself feel better?
She heaved open the window and admitted the sticky summer breath
of the city into the office. Then:'s your enchanted forest, my dear, all
nitty-gritty and not one flake of fairy dust. You've survived here, which
means you can see straight when you have to. Well, you have to now. 
244 ?
?).).)¥JI UNICORN TAPESTRY
Has he been damaged? No telling yet, and you can't stop living while
you wait for the answers to come in. I don't know all that was done
between us, but I do know who did it: I did it, and he did it, and neither
of us withdrew until it was done. We were joined in a rich complicityhe in the wakening of some flicker of humanity in himself, I in keeping
and, yes, enjoying the secret of his implacable blood hunger. What that
complicity means for each of us can only be discovered by getting on with
living and watching for clues from moment to moment. His business is
to continue from here, and mine is to do the same, without guilt and
without resentment. Doug was right: the aim is individual responsibility.
From that effort, not even the lady and the unicorn are exempt.
Shaken by a fresh upwelling of tears, she thought bitterly, Moving on
is easy enough for Weyland; he's used to it, he's had more practice. What
about me? Yes, be selfish, woman-if you haven't learned that, you've
learned damn little.
The Japanese say that in middle age you should leave the claims of
family, friends, and work, and go ponder the meaning of the universe
while you still have the chance. Maybe I'll try j ust existing for a while,
and letting grow in its own time my understanding of a universe that
includes Weyland-and myself-among its possibilities.
Is that looking out for myself? Or am I simply no longer fit for living
with family, friends, and work? Have I been damaged by him-by my
marvelous, murderous monster?
Damn, she thought, I wish he were here, I wish we could talk about
it. The light on her phone caught her eye; it was blinking the quick flashes
that meant Hilda was signaling the imminent arrival of-not Weylandthe day's first client.
We're each on our own now, she thought, shutting the window and
turning on the air-conditioner.
But think of me sometimes, Weyland, thinking of you. 
SusAN CASPER
(b. 1947)
Born in Philadelphia, Susan Casper graduated from Temple University.
She published her first story, "St,ring-Fingered jack, " in the anthology
Fears (1 983), and has published several others in collaboration with her
husband, Gardner Dozois (editor of Asimov's Science Fiction magazine
and the annual Year's Best Science Fiction anthology). These stories have
been collected in Slow Dancing Through Time (1 990). Casper and Dozois
also edited the anthology Ripper! in 1 988.
Though much different in tone, prose style, and characterization, "A
Child of Darkness" bears comparison both with Richard Matheson's I
Am Legend and with Suzy McKee Charnas's "Unicorn Tapestry." I Am
Legend theorizes that vampirism is the result of illness, while "Unicorn
Tapestry" wrestles with whether or not the protagonist is truly a vampire.
In "A Child of Darkness, " Casper tells her story in the present tense
interspersed with flashbacks. The protagonist, Daria, is told that she is
suffering from a blood disease known as porphyria, a type of anemia that
shares many symptoms with vampirism. Or is Daria suffering from a
psychological disorder? Casper, a wise fiction writer, reserves the answer
to that question to the very last P'ossible moment. 
A CHILD OF DARKNESS
The air is damp and tainted with the odors of tobacco, sweat,
and urine. What light there is comes from a small bulb in the ceiling, its
plastic cover green with ancient grime. Voices echo, reecho along the
concrete walls of the corridor until they sound like an old recording. It
is Daria's only contact with the world outside of her little cell and she is
torn between a nervous desire to shut it all out, and a need to listen
greedily.
Far away a woman begins to sing an old gospel song. Her voice is thin
and slightly off-key; it gives Daria a shiver. It makes my blood run cold,
she thinks, then laughs bitterly at the idea. Hers is not the only laughter.
From somewhere in the depths comes the cackle of a mad woman-and
then another voice joins in, slurred, unsteady, taunting. "That singin'
won't help you none, bitch. God knows what you are. Whore of Babylon,
that's what you are."
The singing stops. "What the hell do you know?" a Spanish accent replies.
"Ain't what I know that counts, bitch. It's what God knows. God
knows you're a sinner. He's gonna get you, girl."
The accent protests. She prays, sobs, moans, repents, accuses, but her
anguished voice is softer, and weaker, and somehow more frightening
then the others.
Suddenly, a shrill, soprano, scream cuts across all the other noises. "Oh,
the pain. Oh my God, the pain. I'm dying. Somebody please ... help me."
"Hey, you, knock it off down there," a cold male voice replies.
Daria can see nothing from her cell but the stained gray wall across
the corridor which seems to go on forever, but she finds that if she presses
herself into the corner, she can just make out the place where the hallway
ends on one side. A guard is sitting there. He is eating a sandwich that
he peels from a wax-paper bag as if it were a banana. A Styrofoam cup
is perched on the floor by his side. Another cop comes by. She can see
him briefly as he passes through her narrow channel of vision, but he
must have stopped to talk, because the first man's face splits into a grin
and then she can see his lips move. His thumb points down her corridor
and he begins to laugh.
Lousy bastard, she thinks.
The Kool-Aid looked a lot like wine in her mother's good stemware.
Especially when the light shone through it, making the liquid glow like
rubies, or maybe the glorious seeds of an autumn pomegranate. She lifted
the glass, pinky raised in a grotesque child's parody, and delicately sipped 
SusAN CAsPER ? 24 7
the liquid. Wine must taste a lot lihe this, she thought, swirling the sugary
drink in her mouth. This was what it would be like when she was a lady.
She would pile her hair high atop her head in curls and wear deliciously
tight dresses, her shoulders draped in mink. Just like Marilyn Monroe.
"Ha, ha, Dary's drinking wi-ine. Dary's drinking wi-ine," Kevin sang
as he raced back and forth across the kitchen floor.
"It's not either wine," she said, more embarrassed then frightened at
being caught by her little brother.
"If it's not wine then prove it," he said, snatching the glass from her
hand. He held it tightly in his fist, one pinky shooting straight out into
the air, mocking her already exaggerated grip. He sipped it, then made a
face, eyes bugged and whirling. "Ugh, it is wine," he said, looking at her
impishly. "I must be drunk." He began to stagger about, flinging himself
around the room. Daria saw it coming. She wanted to cry out and stop
him, or at least to cover her eyes so that she couldn't see the disaster, but
it happened before she could do any of those things. Kevin tripped over
the leg of a chair and went down in a crash of shattered crystal.
Her first thought was for the glass. That was one of the things that she
hated herself for later. All she could think about was how it was Kevin's
fault that the glass was broken, but she would be the one who got the
spanking for it. Especially the way he was howling. Then she saw the
blood all over her brother's arm. Already there was a small puddle on
the floor. She knew that she shoulld get a bandage, or call the emergency
number that her mother always kept near the phone, or at the very least,
run and get a neighbor, but she couldn't move. She couldn't take her eyes
off of the bright-red stain. It was not as if she had never seen blood
before, but suddenly she was drawn to it as she had never been drawn
to anything before. Without knowing what she was doing, she found
herself walking toward her brother, taking his arm in her hands and
pulling it slowly toward her face. And then she could taste the salt and
copper taste as she sucked at her brother's wound, filling a need that she
hadn't even known existed. It was a hunger so all-consuming that she
could not be distracted even by Kevin's fists flailing away at her back, or
the sound of her mother's scream when she entered the room.
Daria realizes that she has wedged her face too tightly between the bars
and the cold metal is bruising her cheeks. She withdraws into the dimness.
There is a metal shelf bolted to the wall. It has a raised edge running
around its sides and was obviously designed to hold a mattress that is
long since gone. There are cookie-sized holes in the metal, placed with no
discernible pattern along its length. Words have been scratched into this
cot frame with nail files, hair pins, paper clips-mostly names like Barbara
and Mike, and Gloria S. There arc many expletives and an occasional
statement about the "pigs," but no poems or limericks to occupy her
attention for even a brief time. The metal itself is studded with rock-hard 
248 ?
?).!)}11! A CHILD OF D ARKNESS
lumps of used chewing gum, wadded bits of paper and who knows what
else. It is uncomfortable to sit on even without these things-too wide.
Her skirt is too tight for her to sit cross-legged, and so if she sits back
far enough to lean against the wall, the metal lip cuts sharply into the
back of her calves. Already, there are bright red welts on her legs, and
so she lies on her side with her knees drawn up and her head pedestaled
on her arm, the holes in the metal leaving rings along the length of her
body. She pulls a crumpled package of cigarettes out of her pocket and
stares at them longingly. Only three left. With a sigh, she puts them back.
It is going to be a long night.
The doctor's name was printed in thick black letters on the frosted glass.
Who knew what horrors waited for her on the other side. She knew that
she had promised her mother that she would behave, but it was all too
much for her. With tears streaming down her cheeks, she tried to pull
free from her mother's grasp.
"No! Please. No, Mommy! I'll be a good girl, I promise."
Her mother grabbed her by both shoulders and stooped down until she
could look into her daughter's eyes. With trembling fingers she brushed
the child's hair. "Dary, honey, the doctor won't hurt you. All he wants
to do is have a little talk with you. That's all. You can talk with the nice
doctor, can't you?"
Daria sniffed and wiped her eyes with the backs of her hands. She knew
what kind of people went to see psychiatrists. Crazy people. And crazy
people got "put away" in the nuthouse. She allowed her mother to lead
her into the doctor's office, a queen walking bravely to the gallows.
The waiting room was supposed to look inviting. One whole side was
set up as a playroom, with a child-sized table and two little chairs, an
open toybox with dolls and blocks spilling out of the top. A lady in
starched white greeted them at the door and pointed Daria toward the
corner, but she was not the least interested in playing. Instead, she hoisted
herself onto a large wooden chair and sat there in perfect stillness, her
hands folded across her lap. There she could hear some of the words that
passed between her mother and the nurse. Their voices were hushed and
they were quite far away, but she could hear enough to tell that her
mother was ashamed to tell the white lady what Daria had done. She
could hear the word "crazy" pass back and forth between them just as
she had heard it pass between her father and mother all the last week.
And she could tell, even though she could only see the back of her head,
that her mother was crying.
Suddenly, the door opened up behind the nurse's desk and Daria's
mother disappeared through it. The nurse tried to talk to the sullen little
girl, but Daria remained motionless, knowing that she would wait there
forever, if necessary, but she would not move from that spot until her
mother returned. 
SUSAN CASPER ? 249
Then, like a miracle, her mother was back. Daria forgot all about her
resolve to stay in the seat. She rushed to her mother's side. She would go
anywhere, even inside the doctor's room if only her mother wouldn't leave
her again. When her mother opened the door to the doctor's office and
waved Daria through, the child went without hesitation, but then, her
mother shut the door without following, and Daria was more frightened
than ever.
"You must be Daria," Doctor ·wells said without moving from his desk.
He reminded Daria of the stuffed walrus in the museum, and he smelled
of tobacco and Sen-Sen and mustache wax. He smiled, and it was a
pleasant smile. "Your mother tells me that you're very smart and that
you like to do puzzles. I have a puzzle here that's very hard. Would you
like to try and do my puzzle ?"
Daria nodded, but she did not move from her place near the door. Dr.
Wells got up and walked over to a shelf and removed a large wooden
puzzle. It was a cow. A three-dimensional puzzle. Daria had never seen
anything like it before. He placed the puzzle on a little table that was a
twin to the one in the waiting room and went back behind his desk.
"Well, you don't have to do it if you don't want to," he said after a
minute, and then began to look through some papers on his desk, ignoring
her. Soon, Daria's curiosity got the better of her and she found herself
standing at the table looking at the puzzle, taking it apart.
Daria had expected the doctor would talk to her, but he didn't really
seem interested in talking. He seemed content to watch her play with the
puzzles and toys and he asked her very few questions. By the time she
left his office, Daria had decided that she liked Dr. Wells very much.
She wakes slowly, unsure whether minutes or hours have passed. Her eyes
are weeping from the cold of the metal where her head has been resting,
and her muscles ache with stiffness. Her neck and chest, still covered with
crusted blood that the arresting officers had refused to let her wash away,
have begun to itch unmercifully. She sits up and realizes that her bladder
is full. There is a toilet in the cell!. It is a filthy affair with no seat, no
paper, no sink, and no privacy from the eyes of the policemen who occasionally stroll up and down the corridor. She will live with the pain a
while longer.
Suddenly, she realizes what it is that has woken her up. Silence. It is a
silence as profound as the noise had been earlier. No singing, no taunting
voices, nobody howling in pain. It is so quiet that she can hear the rustling
newspaper of the guard at the end of the hall. She feels that she ought to
be grateful not to have to listen to the racket, but instead, she finds the
silence frightening.
Once again, she pulls the crumpled pack of cigarettes from her pocket.
This time she cannot resist. She pulls one from the pack and straightens
its bent form, then holds it between her lips for a long time before she 
250 ?
?E.)}h!l A CHILD OF D ARKNESS
begins the finalizing act of lighting it. She lets out the smoke in a long
plume, pleased by the hominess of its smell. A familiar scent in this
alien world.
"Can you spare one ... please ?" a soft voice calls from the next cell.
"Please ?" it asks again. The noise acts like a trigger as the tiny gospel
singer starts in once more. A hand pokes through the bars in the corner
of the cell. It is black and scarred and shaking with the strain of the
reach. It is easily the largest hand she has ever seen. Large even for a
man. Daria stares at the two cigarettes remaining in her pack. What the
hell, she figures, they'll be gone soon anyway. She removes one and places
it in the hand. It squeezes her own gently and withdraws.
"So, it has happened again, Daria?" Dr. Wells asked. The child nodded,
looking down at her feet. "After three years we had great hope that it
wouldn't happen again. But now that you are a little older, perhaps you
can tell me what went on in your mind. What were you thinking when
it happened? Do you have any idea why you did it?"
"I don't remember thinking anything. I don't even remember doing it.
It was like a dream. They had us all lined up outside for gym. We were
going to play field hockey. Tanya and Melinda were playing and Tanya
hit her with her stick. I only wanted to help, but there was blood all over
everything. I remember being afraid. I remember doing it, but it was
almost more like watching television, when the camera's supposed to be
you. The next thing I knew, Mrs. Rollie was holding me down and there
were people everywhere." There was a long pause. "None of the other
girls will talk to me now. They call me ... " The child burst into tears.
"They call me a vampire," she said.
"And how do you feel about that?" Dr. Wells goaded her.
"I don't know. Maybe it's true. It must be true, else why would I do
what I do?" Tears streamed down her cheeks and she blotted them with
a tissue.
"What do you know about vampires, Daria?"
"That they sleep in coffins and hate the sun ... I know, but maybe
it's only partly true. I do hate the sunlight. It hurts my eyes. And garlic,
too. It makes me sick. Even the smell of it. Maybe the legends aren't quite
right. Maybe I'm just a different kind of vampire. Why else would I do
what I do?"
"Do you want to be a vampire, Daria?" Dr. Wells asked softly.
"No!" she shouted, the tears streaming down her face unimpeded, then
again more softly, "No. Do you think I'm a vampire ?" she asked.
"No, Daria. I don't believe in vampires. I think you're a young lady
with a problem. And ... I think if we work together, we can find out
why you have this problem and what we can do about it."
There is the jingle of keys and the crisp sound of heavy feet. The dying 
S usAN CASPER ? 251
woman has begun her plea for help again and Daria wonders if they are
finally coming to see what is wrong, but the footsteps stop in front of her
own cell. She looks up and sees the policeman consulting a piece of paper.
"Daria Stanton?" he asks. She nods. He makes her back up, away from
the door of the cell before he opens it:. He tells her to turn around and put
her hands behind her back. He handcuffs her and makes her follow him.
She is surprised to see there is only one cell between hers and the main
corridor, something that she hadn't noticed on the way in. The cop she
saw earlier is still sitting there, still eating, or perhaps eating again. She
wants to ask him why he doesn't at least check on the woman who is
screaming, but he doesn't look up at her as she passes. She is taken down
an endless maze of corridors, all covered with the same green tile, except
where they branch out into hallways full of cells. Eventually, she is taken
to a room where her cuffs are removed and she is told to wait. He is
careless shutting the door behind him and she can see that it isn't locked,
but she makes no move to go through it. What difference can it make.
Her fate was decided long ago.
"Daria Stanton? Please sit down, I have some questions to ask you."
Even after six months it still felt strange, coming to this new building,
walking down a new corridor. She still missed Dr. Wells and hated him
for dying that way, without any warning, as though it had been an act
against her, personally. This new doctor didn't feel like a doctor at all;
letting her call him Mark. And there should be a law against anyone's
shrink being so cute, with all those new-fangled ideas. She paused outside
the door, pulled off her mirrored sunglasses, and adjusted her hair and
makeup in the lenses.
"Morning, Mark," she said as she seated herself in his green padded
chair by the window. She couldn't bring herself to lie down on the couch,
because all she could think of was how much she wanted him lying there
with her. Seated where she was, she could watch the street outside while
they talked. Two boys were standing around the old slide-bolt gum machine that had stood outside Wexler's Drug Store for as long as she could
remember. It was easy to tell by their attitude that they were up to something. The dark-haired boy looked around furtively several times, then
started sliding the bolt back and forth.
"I have some news for you this morning," Dr. Bremner told her. "Good
news, I hope." The blond child kicked the machine and tried the bolt
again. "The reports of your blood workup are back and I've gone over
them with Dr. Walinski. Your blood showed a marked anemia of a type
known as iron-deficiency porphyria. Now, ordinarily, I wouldn't be telling
a patient that it was good news that she was sick, but in your case, it
could mean that your symptoms are purely physical." A woman walked
down the street. The two boys stopped tampering with the machine,
turned and stared into the drugstore window until she had passed " ... a 
2S2 ?
?J!)¥JI A CHILD OF D ARKNESS
very rare disease. It is even more unusual for it to evince the symptoms
that you have, but ... it has been known to happen. Your body craves
the iron porphyrins that it can't produce, and somehow, it knows what
you don't ... that whole blood is a source." The boys went back to the
machine. One of them pulled a wire from his pocket and inserted it into
the coin slot. "I've also talked with Dr. Ruth Tracey at the Eilman Clinic
for Blood Disorders. She says your sensitivity to light and to garlic are
all tied up in this too. For one thing, garlic breaks down old red blood
cells. Just what a person with your condition can't afford to have happen." Once again the boys were interrupted and once again they removed
themselves to the drugstore window. "Do you understand what all this
means?"
Daria nodded morosely.
"How does it feel to know that there is a physiological cause for
your problem?"
"I don't see what difference it makes," she said, brushing a wisp of
straight black hair from her forehead in irritation. "Insanity, vampirism,
porphyria ? What difference does it make what name you put on it? Even
my family barely speaks to me any more. Besides, it's getting worse. I
can't even stand to go out during the day anymore, and look at this."
She pulled the sunglasses from her face to show him the dark circles under
her eyes.
"Yes, I know, but Dr. Tracey can help you. With the right medications
your symptoms should disappear. Imagine a time when you can see someone cut themself without being afraid of what you'll do. You'll be able
to go to the beach and get a suntan for Chrissake."
Daria looked back out the window, but the boys were gone. She wasn't
sure whether the half-empty globe had been full of gumballs a moment
ago.
Hours-weeks-years later they bring her back to her cell. Though she
has only been there since early evening, already it is like coming home.
The chorus has changed. Two drunken, giggling voices have been added
and someone is drumming on the bars with ringed fingers. The taunter
still goads the gospel singer even though she has stopped singing and the
dying woman is still dying, with a tough new voice telling her to do it
already and shut up. Daria slumps back on her slab of metal, her back
against the wall with her straight skirt hiked up so that her legs can be
folded in front of her. She no longer cares what anybody sees. She has
been questioned, photographed, and given one phone call. Mark will be
there for the arraignment. He will see about getting her a lawyer. She has
been told not to worry, that everything will be all right-but she is not
worried ... she knows that nothing will ever be all right for her again.
She stares at the dim and dirty green light that is always on and wonders
if prison will be worse. From what she has read about penal institutions, 
SusAN CASPER ? 25 3
she will not last very long once they send her away. A vampire in prison.
She laughs at the thought and wonders what Dracula would do.
The fire was warmth seeping into her body, making her feel alive for the
first time in years. She inched herself a little closer to the hearth. Mark
came into the room holding a pair of cocktail glasses. He placed one by
her elbow and joined her on the rug.
"Daria, there are things I wanted to tell you. So many things that I just
couldn't say while you were my patient. You do understand why I
couldn't go on treating you? Not the way I felt."
She reached out and squeezed his hand, reluctant to turn her face away
from the fire for even the time it would have taken to look at him. He
stroked her hair. Why did it make her feel like purring? She wanted him
to take her in his arms, but she was afraid. Unlike most twenty-year-old
women, she had no idea what to do; how to react. The boys that she met
had often told her that she was beautiful, flirted, made passes or asked
her out, but the moment they found out anything about her, they always
became frightened and backed off. Mark was different. He already knew
everything, even though he didn't choose to believe it all.
He took her face in his hands and kissed her. At first she wanted
to pull away, but soon a burning started inside of her that made the
fireplace unnecessary.
Daria can no longer stand the boredom. She climbs on the bars of her
cell just for something to do. It is morning. She can tell by the shuffling
of feet and slamming of doors that come from the main corridor. She can
tell by the food trays being brought down the hall, though none comes
to her, and by the fact that the man in the chair has been replaced by a
sloppy matron. She wonders if Mark is in the building yet. Probably. He
has been in love with her since the first day she walked into his office,
though she is convinced it is her condition and not herself that he loves.
She would like to love him back, but though she needs him and wants
him, truly enjoys his intimacy, she is sure that love is just another emotion
that she cannot feel.
A different policeman stops outs11de her cell. He is carrying handcuffs,
but he does not take them from his belt as he opens her cell door. "Time
for your arraignment," he says cheerfully. Docile, she follows him down
the same, and then a different, set of corridors. They take a long ride in
a rickety elevator and when the doors open they are standing in a paneled
hall. Spears of morning light stab through the windows making Daria
cover her eyes. In the distance she can see a courtroom packed with
people. Mark is there. He is standing by the double doors that lead inside.
Someone is with him. Even on such short notice, he has found a lawyera friend of a friend. Mark takes her hand and they go through the double 
254 ?
\\Jl)¥-JI A CHILD OF D ARKNESS
doors together. There are several cases to wait through before her name
is called and he whispers reassurances to her while they sit there.
Finally, it is her turn, but the lawyer and Mark have taken that burden
from her and she has no need to speak. Instead, she watches the judge.
His face is puffy from sleep as he reads down the list of charges, aggravated assault, assault and battery ... the list is long and Daria is surprised
that they haven't thrown in witchcraft. The j udge has probably slept
through many such arraignments, but Daria knows that he will not sleep
through this one. Indeed, she sees his eyes grow wide as the details of her
crime are discussed. Interfering at · the scene of an accident, obstructing
the paramedics ... there is no mercy in that face for her.
Then Mark begins to talk. Lovingly, he tells of her condition, of the
work that Dr. Tracey is doing, of the hope for an imminent cure. He is
so eloquent that for the very first time she is almost willing to believe
that she is merely "sick." The judge's face softens. Illness is another matter. Daria has been so resigned to her fate that she is surprised to find
that she has been freed. Released on her own recognizance until her trial.
No bail. Mark throws his arms around her, but she is too stunned to hug
him back.
"I love you," Mark tells her as he leads her out of the courtroom. He
has brought glasses to shield her eyes from the sun.
A vein in his neck is throbbing.
"I love you too," she answers automatically. She tries not to stare at
the throbbing vein. This is a compulsion caused by illness, she tells herself,
a chemical imbalance in the blood. It can be cured.
"Daria, we're going to fight this. First we'll get you off on those ridiculous charges, and then Dr. Tracey is going to make you well. You'll see.
Everything's going to be all right." He puts his arm around her shoulders,
but something inside make her stiffen and pull away.
Once again she looks at the throbbing vein and wonders what it will
be like not to feel this hunger. All it will take is just the right compound
stabbed into her arm with a little glass needle. A second of pain.
No, she thinks to herself in the crowded aloneness of the jailhouse
steps. She finds herself a well of resolve, of acceptance that she has never
tapped before. She will no longer be put off by bottles of drugs, by diets
that don't work, by hours of laborious talk. She will be what she is, the
thing that makes her different, the thing that makes her herself. She is
not just a young woman with a rare blood disease; she is a vampire, child
of darkness, and she had been fighting it for way too long.
Allowing her expression to soften to a smile, she turns to Mark and
places her hand gently on his neck, feeling the pulse of the vein under her
thumb. "Yes, Mark, you're right," she says softly. "You will have to get
me off on these charges." So many little blue veins in so many necks. She
will have to stay free if she is to feed. 
· · · ·?···· I
V········
THE
NO??-HUMAN
V1?MPIRE
E
ven if we limit our definition of the vampire to creatures who drink
blood, there are numerous non-human vampires in the natural
world-among them mosquitoes, fleas, bedbugs, ticks, gnats, and lice.
Then there are leeches and spiders. And, finally, there are the vampire bats.
The vast majority of non-human vampires in fiction appear in children's
humorous literature, where cute animal vampires have proliferated in recent years. There is "Bunnicula," a vampire rabbit who sucks the j uices
out of helpless fruits and vegetables. Created by James and Deborah Howe
in 1 980, Bunnicula has appeared in numerous pictures books, young adult
novels, and even an animated television special. Bunnicula's competitors
include the Vampire Cat series by Louise Munro Foley (1996 to present).
But the creatures explored in the following pages are not natural, in
the usual understanding of the word. And that is what makes them espe··
cially interesting.
The vampire you will meet in Tanith Lee's "Bite-Me-Not or, Fleur de
Feu," though not human, rouses great sympathy. Roger Zelazny's "The
Stainless Steel Leech" has a strong comic dimension. All of the stories in this
section, which include "The Spider" and "Negotium Perambulans," extend
the fictional possibilities of vampires beyond those that simply mimic human
form and behavior. 
HANNS HEINZ EWERS
(I87I-I94J)
Hanns Heinz Ewers was a German writer (born in Dusseldorf); much of
his fiction remains untranslated. He is noted mainly for a series of novels
featuring anthropologist Frank Braun, a character who wields his influence over supposedly "inferior" people. Ewers is the author ofDer Sanberlehrling (1 907, reprinted in the United States as The Sorcerer's Apprentice
in 1 927), Vampir (1 921), and Alraune (also known as The Mandrakes,
1 91 1). His short fiction was collected in Das Graven (1 908) and Nachtmahr (1 922).
Ewers led a complex and disturbing life; he was a spy in Mexico and
the United States during World War I and an early member of the Nazi
Party. He wrote the official biography of Horst Wessel, a Nazi officer
killed by Communists in a street fight, as well as a biography of Edgar
Allan Poe. Ewers's views about the link between German and Jewish
destiny, as they are expressed in Vampir, are macabre. There, the character
Braun must drink the blood of his .Jewish mistress-voluntarily offered
by her-if he is to be an eloquent fund-raiser for the cause of Germany
in World War I.
The plot of Ewers's "The Spider" is not uncommon: There is a haunted
house, castle, room, or cave. Someone is challenged to spend an hour, or
a night in the dangerous place. He or she accepts the challenge and is
found either dead or raving mad after the ordeal; or survives by being
brave or clever.
What makes "The Spider" a superlative story, despite its well-worn
plot, is the mimetic dialogue that Clairimonda, the vampire, and Richard
Bracquemont, her victim, carry on together from windows on opposite
sides of the street. Bracquemont calls it a game, but it seems more nearly
a kind of simultaneous dance whose meaning becomes clear only at the
story's end. The gesturing is surreal, unimaginable, and at the same time
so apt for an encounter between a victim who yearns to be victimized
and the creature who wants to victimize him. It is a fair, if disastrous,
exchange. 
?
THE SPIDER
When the student of medicine, Richard Bracquemont, decided
to move into room #7 of the small Hotel Stevens, Rue Alfred Stevens
(Paris 6), three persons had already hanged themselves from the cross-bar
of the window in that room on three successive Fridays.
The first was a Swiss traveling salesman. They found his corpse on
Saturday evening. The doctor determined that the death must have occurred between five and six o'clock on Friday afternoon. The corpse hung
on a strong hook that had been driven into the window's cross-bar to
serve as a hanger for articles of clothing. The window was closed, and
the dead man had used the curtain cord as a noose. Since the window
was very low, he hung with his knees practically touching the floor-a
sign of the great discipline the suicide must have exercised in carrying out
his design. Later, it was learned that he was a married man, a father. He
had been a man of a continually happy disposition; a man who had
achieved a secure place in life. There was not one written word to be
found that would have shed light on his suicide . . . not even a will.
Furthermore, none of his acquaintances could recall hearing anything at
all from him that would have permitted anyone to predict his end.
The second case was not much different. The artist, Karl Krause, a high
wire cyclist in the nearby Medrano Circus, moved into room #7 two days
later. When he did not show up at Friday's performance, the director sent
an employee to the hotel. There, he found Krause in the unlocked room
hanging from the window cross-bar in circumstances exactly like those of
the previous suicide. This death was as perplexing as the first. Krause was
popular. He earned a very high salary, and had appeared to enjoy life at
its fullest. Once again, there was no suicide note; no sinister hints.
Krause's sole survivor was his mother to whom the son had regularly sent
300 marks on the first of the month.
For Madame Dubonnet, the owner of the small, cheap guesthouse
whose clientele was composed almost completely of employees in a nearby
Montmartre vaudeville theater, this second curious death in the same
room had very unpleasant consequences. Already several of her guests had
moved out, and other regular clients had not come back. She appealed
for help to her personal friend, the inspector of police of the ninth precinct, who assured her that he would do everything in his power to help
her. He pushed zealously ahead not only with the investigation into the
grounds for the suicides of the two guests, but he also placed an officer
in the mysterious room.
This man, Charles-Maria Chaumi{:, actually volunteered for the task. 
258 ?
?)_!)¥-Jl THE SPIDER
Chaumie was an old "Marsouin," a marine sergeant with eleven years of
service, who had lain so many nights at posts in Tonkin and Annam, and
had greeted so many stealthily creeping river pirates with a shot from his
rifle that he seemed ideally suited to encounter the "ghost" that everyone
on Rue Alfred Stevens was talking about.
From then on, each morning and each evening, Chaumie paid a brief
visit to the police station to make his report, which, for the first few days,
consisted only of his statement that he had not noticed anything unusual.
On Wednesday evening, however, he hinted that he had found a clue.
Pressed to say more, he asked to be allowed more time before making
any comment, since he was not sure that what he had discovered had any
relationship to the two deaths, and he was afraid he might say something
that would make him look foolish.
On Thursday, his behavior seemed a bit uncertain, but his mood was
noticeably more serious. Still, he had nothing to report. On Friday morning, he came in very excited and spoke, half humorously, half seriously,
of the strangely attractive power that his window had. He would not
elaborate this notion and said that, in any case, it had nothing to do with
the suicides; and that it would be ridiculous of him to say any more.
When, on that same Friday, he failed to make his regular evening report,
someone went to his room and found him hanging from the cross-bar of
the window.
All the circumstances, down to the minutest detail, were the same here
as in the previous cases. Chaumie's legs dragged along the ground. The
curtain cord had been used for a noose. The window was closed, the door
to the room had not been locked and death had occurred at six o'clock.
The dead man's mouth was wide open, and his tongue protruded from it.
Chaumie's death, the third in as many weeks in room #7, had the
following consequences: all the guests, with the exception of a German
high-school teacher in room #16, moved out. The teacher took advantage
of the occasion to have his rent reduced by a third. The next day, Mary
Garden, the famous Opera Comique singer, drove up to the Hotel Stevens
and paid two hundred francs for the red curtain cord, saying it would
bring her luck. The story, small consolation for Madame Dubonnet, got
into the papers.
If these events had occurred in summer, in July or August, Madame
Dubonnet would have secured three times that price for her cord, but as
it was in the middle of a troubled year, with elections, disorders in the
Balkans, bank crashes in New York, the visit of the King and Queen of
England, the result was that the affaire Rue Alfred Stevens was talked of
less than it deserved to be. As for the newspaper accounts, they were
brief, being essentially the police reports word for word.
These reports were all that Richard Bracquemont, the medical student,
knew of the matter. There was one detail about which he knew nothing
because neither the police inspector nor any of the eyewitnesses had men-
BANNS H EINZ EWERS ID z 2 59
tioned it to the press. It was only later, after what happened to the medical
student, that anyone remembered that when the police removed Sergeant
Charles-Maria Chaumie's body from the window cross-bar a large black
spider crawled from the dead man's open mouth. A hotel porter flicked
it away, exclaiming. "Ugh, another of those damned creatures." When in
later investigations which concerned themselves mostly with Bracquemont
the servant was interrogated, he said that he had seen a similar spider
crawling on the Swiss traveling salesman's shoulder when his body was
removed from the window cross-bar. But Richard Bracquemont knew
nothing of all this.
It was more than two weeks after the last suicide that Bracquemont
moved into the room. It was a Sunday. Bracquemont conscientiously recorded everything that happened to him in his journal. That journal
now follows.
Monday, February 28
I moved in yesterday evening. I unpacked my two wicker suitcases and
straightened the room a little. Then I went to bed. I slept so soundly that
it was nine o'clock the next morning before a knock at my door woke
me. It was my hostess, bringing m(: breakfast herself. One could read her
concern for me in the eggs, the bacon and the superb cafe au fait she
brought me. I washed and dressed,, then smoked a pipe as I watched the
servant make up the room.
So, here I am. I know well that the situation may prove dangerous, but
I think I may just be the one to solve the problem. If, once upon a time,
Paris was worth a mass (conquest comes at a dearer rate these days), it
is well worth risking my life pour un si bel enjeu. I have at least one
chance to win, and I mean to risk it.
As it is, I'm not the only one who has had this notion. Twenty-seven
people have tried for access to the room. Some went to the police, some
went directly to the hotel owner. There were even three women among
the candidates. There was plenty of competition. No doubt the others are
poor devils like me.
And yet, it was I who was chosen. Why? Because I was the only one
who hinted that I had some plan-·or the semblance of a plan. Naturally,
I was bluffing.
These journal entries are intended for the police. I must say that it
amuses me to tell those gentlemen how neatly I fooled them. If the Inspector has any sense, he'll say, "Hm. This Bracquemont is j ust the man we
need." In any case, it doesn't matter what he'll say. The point is I'm here
now, and I take it as a good sign that I've begun my task by bamboozling
the police.
I had gone first to Madame Dubonnet, and it was she who sent me to
the police. They put me off for a whole week-as they put off my rivals
as well. Most of them gave up in disgust, having something better to do 
260 @91
?).:)}lJJ THE SPIDER
than hang around the musty squad room. The Inspector was beginning
to get irritated at my tenacity. At last, he told me I was wasting my time.
That the police had no use for bungling amateurs. "Ah, if only you had
a plan. Then ... "
On the spot, I announced that I had such a plan, though naturally I
had no such thing. Still, I hinted that my plan was brilliant, but dangerous,
that it might lead to the same end as that which had overtaken the police
officer, Chaumie. Still, I promised to describe it to him if he would give
me his word that he would personally put it into effect. He made excuses,
claiming he was too busy but when he asked me to give him at least a
hint of my plan, I saw that I had picqued his interest.
I rattled off some nonsense made up of whole cloth. God alone knows
where it all came from. I told him that six o'clock of a Friday is an occult
hour. It is the last hour of the Jewish week; the hour when Christ disappeared from his tomb and descended into hell. That he would do well to
remember that the three suicides had taken place at approximately that
hour. That was all I could tell him just then, I said, but I pointed him to
The Revelations of St. john.
The Inspector assumed the look of a man who understood all that I
had been saying, then he asked me to come back that evening.
I returned, precisely on time, and noted a copy of the New Testament
on the Inspector's desk. I had, in the meantime, been at the Revelations
myself, without however having understood a syllable. Perhaps the Inspector was cleverer than I. Very politely-nay-deferentially, he let me know
that, despite my extremely vague intimations, he believed he grasped my
line of thought and was ready to expedite my plan in every way.
And here, I must acknowledge that he has indeed been tremendously
helpful. It was he who made the arrangement with the owner that I was
to have anything I needed so long as I stayed in the room. The Inspector
gave me a pistol and a police whistle, and he ordered the officers on the
beat to pass through the Rue Alfred Stevens as often as possible, and to
watch my window for any signal. Most important of all, he had a desk
telephone installed which connects directly with the police station. Since
the station is only four minutes away, I see no reason to be afraid.
Wednesday, March 1
Nothing has happened. Not yesterday. Not today.
Madame Dubonnet brought a new curtain cord from another roomthe rooms are mostly empty, of course. Madame Dubonnet takes every
opportunity to visit me, and each time she brings something with her. I
have asked her to tell me again everything that happened here, but I have
learned nothing new. She has her own opinion of the suicides. Her view
is that the music hall artist, Krause, killed himself because of an unhappy
love affair. During the last year that Krause lived in the hotel, a young
woman had made frequent visits to him. These visits had stopped, just 
261
before his death. As for the Swiss gentleman, Madame Dubonnet confessed herself baffled. On the other hand, the death of the policeman was
easy to explain. He had killed himself just to annoy her.
These are sad enough explanations, to be sure, but I let her babble on
to take the edge off my boredom.
Thursday, March 3
Still nothing. The Inspector calls twice a day. Each time, I tell him that
all is well. Apparently, these words do not reassure him.
I have taken out my medical books and I study, so that my self-imposed
confinement will have some purpose.
Friday, March 4
I ate uncommonly well at noon. The landlady brought me half a bottle
of champagne. It seemed a meal for a condemned man. Madame Dubonnet looked at me as if I were already three-quarters dead. As she was
leaving, she begged me tearfully to come with her, fearing no doubt that
I would hang myself "just to annoy her."
I studied the curtain cord once again. Would I hang myself with it?
Certainly, I felt little desire to do so. The cord is stiff and rough-not the
sort of cord one makes a noose of. One would need to be truly determined
before one could imitate the others.
I am seated now at my table. At my left, the telephone. At my right,
the revolver. I'm not frightened; but I am curious.
Six o'clock, the same evening
Nothing has happened. I was about to add, "Unfortunately." The fatal
hour has come-and has gone, like any six o'clock on any evening. I
won't hide the fact that I occasionally felt a certain impulse to go to the
window, but for a quite different reason than one might imagine.
The Inspector called me at least ten times between five and six o'clock.
He was as impatient as I was. Madame Dubonnet, on the other hand, is happy.
A week has passed without someone in #7 hanging himself. Marvelous.
Monday, March 7
I have a growing conviction that I will learn nothing; that the previous
suicides are related to the circumstances surrounding the lives of the three
men. I have asked the Inspector to investigate the cases further, convinced
that someone will find their motivations. As for me, I hope to stay here
as long as possible. I may not conquer Paris here, but I live very well and
I'm fattening up nicely. I'm also studying hard, and I am making real
progress. There is another reason, too, that keeps me here.
Wednesday, March 9
So! I have taken one step more. Clarimonda. 
262
I haven't yet said anything about Clarimonda. It is she who is my
"third" reason for staying here. She is also the reason I was tempted to
go to the window during the "fateful" hour last Friday. But of course,
not to hang myself.
Clarimonda. Why do I call her that? I have no idea what her name is,
but it ought to be Clarimonda. When finally I ask her name, I'm sure it
will turn out to be Clarimonda.
I noticed her almost at once ... in the very first days. She lives across
the narrow street; and her window looks right into mine. She sits there,
behind her curtains.
I ought to say that she noticed me before I saw her; and that she was
obviously interested in me. And no wonder. The whole neighborhood
knows I am here, and why. Madame Dubonnet has seen to that.
I am not of a particularly amorous disposition. In fact, my relations
with women have been rather meager. When one comes from Verdun to
Paris to study medicine, and has hardly money enough for three meals a
day, one has something else to think about besides love. I am then not
very experienced with women, and I may have begun my adventure with
her stupidly. Never mind. It's exciting just the same.
At first, the idea of establishing some relationship with her simply did
not occur to me. It was only that, since I was here to make observations,
and, since there was nothing in the room to observe, I thought I might
as well observe my neighbor-openly, professionally. Anyhow, one can't
sit all day long j ust reading.
Clarimonda, I have concluded, lives alone in the small flat across the
way. The flat has three windows, but she sits only before the window
that looks into mine. She sits there, spinning on an old-fashioned spindle,
such as my grandmother inherited from a great aunt. I had no idea anyone
still used such spindles. Clarimonda's spindle is a lovely object. It appears
to be made of ivory; and the thread she spins is of an exceptional fineness.
She works all day behind her curtains, and stops spinning only as the sun
goes down. Since darkness comes abruptly here in this narrow street and
in this season of fogs, Clarimonda disappears from her place at five
o'clock each evening.
I have never seen a light in her flat.
What does Clarimonda look like ? I'm not quite sure. Her hair is black
and wavy; her face pale. Her nose is short and finely shaped with delicate
nostrils that seem to quiver. Her lips, too, are pale; and when she smiles,
it seems that her small teeth are as keen as those of some beast of prey.
Her eyelashes are long and dark; and her huge dark eyes have an intense
glow. I guess all these details more than I know them. It is hard to see
clearly through the curtains.
Something else: she always wears a black dress embroidered with a lilac
motif; and black gloves, no doubt to protect her hands from the effects
of her work. It is a curious sight: her delicate hands moving perpetually, 
'JiJ ?2 HANNS H EINZ EWERS 263
swiftly grasping the thread, pulling it, releasing it, taking it up again; as
if one were watching the indefatigable motions of an insect.
Our relationship? For the moment, still very superficial, though it feels
deeper. It began with a sudden exchange of glances in which each of us
noted the other. I must have pleased her, because one day she studied me
a while longer, then smiled tentatively. Naturally, I smiled back. In this
fashion, two days went by, each of us smiling more frequently with the
passage of time. Yet something kept me from greeting her directly.
Until today. This afternoon, I did it. And Clarimonda returned my
greeting. It was done subtly enough, to be sure, but I saw her nod.
Thursday, March 1 0
Yesterday, I sat for a long time over my books, though I can't truthfully
say that I studied much. I built castles in the air and dreamed of
Clarimonda.
I slept fitfully.
This morning, when I approached my window, Clarimonda was already
in her place. ) waved, and she nodded back. She laughed and studied me
for a long time.
I tried to read, but I felt much too uneasy. Instead, I sat down at my
window and gazed at Clarimonda. She too had laid her work aside. Her
hands were folded in her lap. I drew my curtain wider with the window
cord, so that I might see better. At the same moment, Clarimonda did
the same with the curtains at her window. We exchanged smiles.
We must have spent a full hour gazing at each other.
Finally, she took up her spinning.
Saturday, March 12
The days pass, I eat and drink. I sit at the desk. I light my pipe; I look
down at my book but I don't read a word, though I try again and again.
Then I go to the window where I wave to Clarimonda. She nods. We
smile. We stare at each other for hours.
Yesterday afternoon, at six o'clock, I grew anxious. The twilight came
early, bringing with it something like anguish. I sat at my desk. I waited
until I was invaded by an irresistible need to go to the window-not to
hang myself; but just to see Clarimonda. I sprang up and stood beside
the curtain where it seemed to me I had never been able to see so clearly,
though it was already dark. Clarimonda was spinning, but her eyes looked
into mine. I felt myself strangely contented even as I experienced a light
sensation of fear.
The telephone rang. It was the Inspector tearing me out of my trance
with his idiotic questions. I was furious.
This morning, the Inspector and Madame Dubonnet visited me. She is
enchanted with how things are going. I have now lived for two weeks in
room #7. The Inspector, however, does not feel he is getting results. I 
264 ?
?)).)}IJl THE SPIDER
hinted mysteriously that I was on the trail of something most unusual.
The jackass took me at my word and fulfilled my dearest wish. I've been
allowed to stay in the room for another week. God knows it isn't Madame
Dubonnet's cooking or wine-cellar that keeps me here. How quickly one
can be sated with such things. No. I want to stay because of the window
Madame Dubonnet fears and hates. That beloved window that shows
me Clarimonda.
I have stared out of my window, trying to discover whether she ever
leaves her room, but I've never seen her set foot on the street.
As for me, I have a large, comfortable armchair and a green shade over
the lamp whose glow envelops me in warmth. The Inspector has left me
with a huge packet of fine tobacco-and yet I cannot work. I read two
or three pages only to discover that I haven't understood a word. My
eyes see the letters, but my brain refuses to make any sense of them.
Absurd. As if my brain were posted: "No Trespassing." It is as if there
were no room in my head for any other thought than the one: Clarimonda. I push my book away; I lean back deeply into my chair. I dream.
Sunday, March 13
This morning I watched a tiny drama while the servant was tidying my
room. I was strolling in the corridor when I paused before a small window
in which a large garden spider had her web. Madame Dubonnet will not
have it removed because she believes spiders bring luck, and she's had
enough misfortunes in her house lately. Today, I saw a much smaller
spider, a male, moving across the strong threads towards the middle of
the web, but when his movements alerted the female, he drew back shyly
to the edge of the web from which he made a second attempt to cross it.
Finally, the female in the middle appeared attentive to his wooing, and
stopped moving. The male tugged at a strand gently, then more strongly
till the whole web shook. The female stayed motionless. The male moved
quickly forward and the female received him quietly, calmly, giving herself
over completely to his embraces. For a long minute, they hung together
motionless at the center of the huge web.
Then I saw the male slowly extricating himself, one leg over the other.
It was as if he wanted tactfully to leave his companion alone in the dream
of love, but as he started away, the female, overwhelmed by a wild life,
was after him, hunting him ruthlessly. The male let himself drop from a
thread, the female followed, and for a while the lovers hung there, imitating a piece of art. Then they fell to the window-sill where the male,
summoning all his strength, tried again to escape. Too late. The female
already had him in her powerful grip, and was carrying him back to the
center of the web. There, the place that had j ust served as the couch for
their lascivious embraces took on quite another aspect. The lover wriggled,
trying to escape from the female's wild embrace, but she was too much
for him. It was not long before she had wrapped him completely in her 
HANNS H EINZ EWERS ? 265
thread, and he was helpless. Then she dug her sharp pincers into his body,
and sucked full draughts of her young lover's blood. Finally, she detached
herself from the pitiful and unrecognizable shell of his body and threw it
out of her web.
So that is what love is like among these creatures. Well for me that I
am not a spider.
Monday, March 14
I don't look at my books any longer. I spend my days at the window.
When it is dark, Clarimonda is no longer there, but if I close my eyes, I
continue to see her.
This journal has become something other than I intended. I've spoken
about Madame Dubonnet, about the Inspector; about spiders and about
Clarimonda. But I've said nothing about the discoveries I undertook to
make. It can't be helped.
Tuesday, March 15
We have invented a strange game, Clarimonda and I. We play it all
day long. I greet her; then she greets me. Then I tap my fingers on the
windowpanes. The moment she sees me doing that, she too begins tapping. I wave to her; she waves back. I move my lips as if speaking to her;
she does the same. I run my hand through my sleep-disheveled hair and
instantly her hand is at her forehead. It is a child's game, and we both
laugh over it. Actually, she doesn't laugh. She only smiles a gently contained smile. And I smile back in the same way.
The game is not as trivial as it seems. It's not as if we were grossly
imitating each other-that would weary us both. Rather, we are communicating with each other. Sometimes, telepathically, it would seem, since
Clarimonda follows my movements instantaneously almost before she has
had time to see them. I find myself inventing new movements, or new
combinations of movements, but each time she repeats them with disconcerting speed. Sometimes, I change the order of the movements to surprise
her, making whole series of gestures as rapidly as possible; or I leave out
some motions and weave in others, the way children play "Simon Says."
What is amazing is that Clarimonda never once makes a mistake, no
matter how quickly I change gestures.
That's how I spend my days ... but never for a moment do I feel that
I'm killing time. It seems, on the contrary, that never in my life have I
been better occupied.
Wednesday, March 16
Isn't it strange that it hasn't occurred to me to put my relationship with
Clarimonda on a more serious basis than these endless games. Last night,
I thought about this ... I can, of course, put on my hat and coat, walk
down two flights of stairs, take five steps across the street and mount two 
266
flights to her door which is marked with a small sign that says "Clarimonda." Clarimonda what? I don't know. Something. Then I can knock
and ...
Up to this point I imagine everything very clearly, but I cannot see what
should happen next. I know that the door opens. But then I stand before
it, looking into a dark void. Clarimonda doesn't come. Nothing comes.
Nothing is there, only the black, impenetrable dark.
Sometimes, it seems to me that there can be no other Clarimonda but
the one I see in the window; the one who plays gesture-games with me.
I cannot imagine a Clarimonda wearing a hat, or a dress other than her
black dress with the lilac motif. Nor can I imagine a Clarimonda without
black gloves. The very notion that I might encounter Clarimonda somewhere in the streets or in a restaurant eating, drinking or chatting is so
improbable that it makes me laugh.
Sometimes I ask myself whether I love her. It's impossible to say, since
I have never loved before. However, if the feeling that I have for Clarimonda is really-love, then love is something entirely different from anything I have seen among my friends or read about in novels.
It is hard for me to be sure of my feelings and harder still to think of
anything that doesn't relate to Clarimonda or, what is more important,
to our game. Undeniably, it is our game that concerns me. Nothing elseand this is what I understand least of all.
There is no doubt that I am drawn to Clarimonda, but with this attraction there is mingled another feeling, fear. No. That's not it either.
Say rather a vague apprehension in the presence of the unknown. And
this anxiety has a strangely voluptuous quality so that I am at the same
time drawn to her even as I am repelled by her. It is as if I were moving
in giant circles around her, sometimes coming close, sometimes
retreating ... back and forth, back and forth.
Once, I am sure of it, it will happen, and I will join her.
Clarimonda sits at her window and spins her slender, eternally fine
thread, making a strange cloth whose purpose I do not understand. I am
amazed that she is able to keep from tangling her delicate thread. Hers is
surely a remarkable design, containing mythical beasts and strange masks.
Thursday, March 17
I am curiously excited. I don't talk to people any more. I barely say
"hello" to Madame Dubonnet or to the servant. I hardly give myself time
to eat. All I can do is sit at the window and play the game with Clarimonda. It is an enthralling game. Overwhelming.
I have the feeling something will happen tomorrow.
Friday, March 18
Yes. Yes. Something will happen today. I tell myself-as loudly as I
can-that that's why I am here. And yet, horribly enough, I am afraid. 
H ANNS HEINZ EWERS ?19 ?2 267
And in the fear that the same thing is going to happen to me as happened
to my predecessors, there is strangely mingled another fear: a terror of
Clarimonda. And I cannot separate the two fears.
I am frightened. I want to scream.
Six o'clock, evening
I have my hat and coat on. Just a couple of words.
At five o'clock, I was at the end of my strength. I'm perfectly aware
now that there is a relationship between my despair and the "sixth hour"
that was so significant in the previous weeks. I no longer laugh at the
trick I played the Inspector.
I was sitting at the window, trying with all my might to stay in my
chair but the window kept drawing me. I had to resume the game with
Clarimonda. And yet, the window horrified me. I saw the others hanging
there: the Swiss traveling salesman, fat, with a thick neck and a grey
stubbly beard; the thin artist; and the powerful police sergeant. I saw
them, one after the other, hanging from the same hook, their mouths
open, their tongues sticking out. And then, I saw myself among them.
Oh, this unspeakable fear. It was clear to me that it was provoked as
much by Clarimonda as by the cross-bar and the horrible hook. May she
pardon me ... but it is the truth. In my terror, I keep seeing the three
men hanging there, their legs dragging on the floor.
And yet, the fact is I had not felt the slightest desire to hang myself;
nor was I afraid that I would want to do so. No, it was the window I
feared; and Clarimonda. I was sure that something horrid was going to
happen. Then I was overwhelmed by the need to go to the window to
stand before it. I had to ...
The telphone rang. I picked up the receiver and before I could hear a
word, I screamed. "Come. Come at once."
It was as if my shrill cry had in that instant dissipated the shadows
from my soul. I grew calm. I wiped the sweat from my forehead. I drank
a glass of water. Then I considered what I should say to the Inspector
when he arrived. Finally, I went to the window. I waved and smiled. And
Clarimonda too waved and smiled.
Five minutes later, the Inspector was here. I told him that I was getting
to the bottom of the matter, but I begged him not to question me just
then. That very soon I would be in a position to make important revelations. Strangely enough, though I was lying to him, I myself had the
feeling that I was telling the truth. Even now, against my will. I have that
same conviction.
The Inspector could not help noticing my agitated state of mind, especially since I apologized for my anguished cry over the telephone. Naturally, I tried to explain it to him, and yet I could not find a single reason
to give for it. He said affectionately that there was no need ever to apologize to him; that he was always at my disposal; that that was his duty. It 
268 ?
?N¥JI T HE SPIDER
was better that he should come a dozen times to no effect rather than fail
to be here when he was needed. He invited me to go out with him for
the evening. It would be a distraction for me. It would do me good not
to be alone for a while. I accepted the invitation though I was very reluctant to leave the room.
Saturday, March 19
We went to the Gaiete Rochechouart, La Cigale, apd La Lune Rousse.
The Inspector was right: It was good for me to get out and breathe the
fresh air. At first, I had an uncomfortable feeling, as if I were doing
something wrong; as if I were a deserter who had turned his back on the
flag. But that soon went away. We drank a lot, laughed and chatted. This
morning, when I went to my window, Clarimonda gave me what I thought
was a look of reproach, though I may only have imagined it. How could
she have known that I had gone out last night? In any case, the look
lasted only for an instant, then she smiled again.
We played the game all day long.
Sunday, March 20
Only one thing to record: we played the game.
Monday, March 21
We played the game all day long.
Tuesday, March 22
Yes, the game. We played it again. And nothing else. Nothing at all.
Sometimes I wonder what is happening to me? What is it I want? Where
is all this leading? I know the answer: there is nothing else I want except
what is happening. It is what I want ... what I long for. This only.
Clarimonda and I have spoken with each other in the course of the last
few days, but very briefly; scarcely a word. Sometimes we moved our lips,
but more often we just looked at each other with deep understanding.
I was right about Clarimonda's reproachful look because I went out
with the Inspector last Friday. I asked her to forgive me. I said it was
stupid of me, and spiteful to have gone. She forgave me, and I promised
never to leave the window again. We kissed, pressing our lips against each
of our windowpanes.
Wednesday, March 23
I know now that I love Clarimonda. That she has entered into the very
fiber of my being. It may be that the loves of other men are different. But
does there exist one head, one ear, one hand that is exactly like hundreds
of millions of others? There are always differences, and it must be so with
love. My love is strange, I know that, but is it any the less lovely because
of that? Besides, my love makes me happy. 
\)?:\) :z
HANNS H EINZ EWERS ;..- 269
If only I were not so frightened. Sometimes my terror slumbers and I
forget it for a few moments, then it wakes and does not leave me. The
fear is like a poor mouse trying to escape the grip of a powerful serpent.
Just wait a bit, poor sad terror. Very soon, the serpent love will devour
you.
Thursday, March 24
I have made a discovery: I don't play with Clarimonda. She plays
with me.
Last night, thinking as always about our game, I wrote down five new
and intricate gesture patterns with which I intended to surprise Clarimonda today. I gave each gesture a number. Then I practiced the series,
so I could do the motions as quickly as possible, forwards or backwards.
Or sometimes only the even numbered ones, sometimes the odd. Or the
first and the last of the five patterns. It was tiring work, but it made me
happy and seemed to bring Clarimonda closer to me. I practiced for hours
until I got all the motions down pat, like clockwork.
This morning, I went to the window. Clarimonda and I greeted each
other, then our game began. Back and forth! It was incredible how quickly
she understood what was to be done; how she kept pace with me.
There was a knock at the door. It was the servant bringing me my
shoes. I took them. On my way back to the window, my eye chanced to
fall on the slip of paper on which I had noted my gesture patterns. It was
then that I understood: in the game just finished, I had not made use of
a single one of my patterns.
I reeled back and had to hold on to the chair to keep from falling. It
was unbelievable. I read the paper again-and again. It was still true: I
had gone through a long series of gestures at the window, and not one
of the patterns had been mine.
I had the feeling, once more, that I was standing before Clarimonda's
wide open door, through which, though I stared, I could see nothing but
a dark void. I knew, too, that if I chose to turn from the door now, I
might be saved; and that I still had the power to leave. And yet, I did
not leave-because I felt myself at the very edge of the mystery: as if I
were holding the secret in my hands. "Paris! You will conquer Paris," I
thought. And in that instant, Paris was more powerful than Clarimonda.
I don't think about that any more. Now, I feel only love. Love, and a
delicious terror.
Still, the moment itself endowed me with strength. I read my notes
again, engraving the gestures on my mind. Then I went back to the window only to become aware that there was not one of my patterns that I
wanted to use. Standing there, it occurred to me to rub the side of my
nose; instead I found myself pressing my lips to the windowpane. I tried
to drum with my fingers on the window sill; instead, I brushed my fingers
through my hair. And so I understood that it was not that Clarimonda 
2 70 @01
?)J)}WI THE SPIDER
did what I did. Rather, my gestures followed her lead and with such
lightning rapidity that we seemed to be moving simultaneously. I, who
had been so proud because I thought I had been influencing her, I was in
fact being influenced by her. Her influence ... so gentle ... so delightful.
I have tried another experiment. I clenched my hands and put them in
my pockets firmly intending not to move them one bit. Clarimonda raised
her hand and, smiling at me, made a scolding gesture with her finger. I
did not budge, and yet I could feel how my right hand wished to leave
my pocket. I shoved my fingers against the lining, but against my will,
my hand left the pocket; my arm rose into the air. In my turn, I made a
scolding gesture with my finger and smiled. It seemed to me that it was
not I who was doing all this. It was a stranger whom I was watching.
But, of course, I was mistaken. It was I making the gesture, and the person
watching me was the stranger; that very same stranger who, not long ago,
was so sure that he was on the edge of a great discovery. In any case, it
was not I.
Of what use to me is this discovery? I am here to do Clarimonda's will.
Clarimonda, whom I love with an anguished heart.
Friday, March 25
I have cut the telephone cord. I have no wish to be continually disturbed
by the i
'
diotic inspector j ust as the mysterious hour arrives.
God. Why did I write that? Not a word of it is true. It is as if someone
else were directing my pen.
But I want to ... want to ... to write the truth here ... though it is
costing me great effort. But I want to ... once more ... do what I want.
I have cut the telephone cord ... ah .. .
Because I had to ... there it is. Had to .. .
We stood at our windows this morning and played the game, which is
now different from what it was yesterday. Clarimonda makes a movement
and I resist it for as long as I can. Then I give in and do what she wants
without further struggle. I can hardly express what a joy it is to be so
conquered; to surrender entirely to her will.
We played. All at once, she stood up and walked back into her room,
where I could not see her; she was so engulfed by the dark. Then she
came back with a desk telephone, like mine, in her hands. She smiled and
set the telephone on the window sill, after which she took a knife and
cut the cord. Then I carried my telephone to the window where I cut the
cord. After that, I returned my phone to its place.
That's how it happened ...
I sit at my desk where I have been drinking tea the servant brought
me. He has come for the empty teapot, and I ask him for the time, since
my watch isn't running properly. He says it is five fifteen. Five fifteen ...
I know that if I look out of my window, Clarimonda will be there 
HANNS HEINZ EWERS ? 271
making a gesture that I will have to imitate. I will look just the same.
Clarimonda is there, smiling. If only I could turn my eyes away from hers.
Now she parts the curtain. She takes the cord. It is red, j ust like the
cord in my window. She ties a noose and hangs the cord on the hook in
the window cross-bar.
She sits down and smiles.
No. Fear is no longer what I feel. Rather, it is a sort of oppressive
terror which I would not want to avoid for anything in the world. Its
grip is irresistible, profoundly cruel, and voluptuous in its attraction.
I could go to the window, and do what she wants me to do, but I wait.
I struggle. I resist though I feel a mounting fascination that becomes more
intense each minute.
Here I am once more. Rashly, I went to the window where I did what
Clarimonda wanted. I took the cord, tied a noose, and hung it on the
hook ...
Now, I want to see nothing else--except to stare at this paper. Because
if I look, I know what she will do ... now ... at the sixth hour of the
last day of the week. If I see her, I will have to do what she wants.
Have to ...
I won't see her ...
I laugh. Loudly. No. I'm not laughing. Something is laughing in me,
and I know why. It is because of my "I won't ... "
I won't, and yet I know very well that I have to ... have to look at
her. I must ... must ... and then ... all that follows.
If I still wait, it is only to prolong this exquisite torture. Yes, that's it.
This breathless anguish is my supreme delight. I write quickly, quickly ...
j ust so l can continue to sit here; so I can attenuate these seconds of pain.
Again, terror. Again. I know that I will look toward her. That I will
stand up. That I will hang myself.
That doesn't frighten me. That is beautiful ... even precious.
There is something else. What will happen afterwards? I don't know,
but since my torment is so delicious, I feel ... feel that something horrible
must follow.
Think ... think ... Write something. Anything at all ... to keep
from looking toward her . ..
My name ... Richard Bracquemont. Richard Bracquemont ... Richard
Bracquemont . . . Richard . . .
I can't ... go on. I must ... no ... no .. must look at her ...
Richard Bracquemont ... no . . . no more . . Richard ... Richard
Bracque- ...
The inspector of the ninth precinct, after repeated and vain efforts to
telephone Richard, arrived at the Hotel Stevens at 6:05 . He found the
body of the student Richard Bracquemont hanging from the cross-bar of 
2 72 ?
?)J)¥-JI THE SPIDER
the window in room #7, m the same position as each of his three
predecessors.
The expression on the student's face, however, was different, reflecting
an appalling fear. Bracquemont's eyes were wide open and bulging from
their sockets. His lips were drawn into a rictus, and his jaws were clamped
together. A huge black spider whose body was dotted with purple spots
lay crushed and nearly bitten in two between his teeth.
On the table, there lay the student's journal. The inspector read it and
went immediately to investigate the house across the street. What he
learned was that the second floor of that building had not been lived in
for many months. 
E. F. BENSON
(1867-1940)
Edward Frederic Benson was born and raised in England and was educated at Cambridge. His brothers A. C. Benson and Robert Hugh Benson
were also writers, but he was by (ar the most successful of the three. The
brothers came from what we would now regard as a dysfunctional family;
one reference book says that "their history reads like a TV soap opera."''
Benson published his first and most acclaimed novel, Dodo, in 1 893.
The novel's popularity spawned two later sequels: Dodo's Daughter
(1 914; republished as Dodo the Second) and Dodo Wonders (1 921). His
second novel, The Rubicon (1 894), fared less well with the critics. Then
followed years of popularity with readers leavened by serious criticism
from reviewers.
Like many people of his generation Benson was fascinated by seances,
psychic phenomena, and magic, and wrote about them in his fiction, including The Luck of the Vails (1 901) and The Angel of Pain (1 906). His
many other successful novels include Mrs. Ames (1 912), Queen Lucia
(1 920), Miss Mapp (1 922), and Lucia in' London (1 92 7). His writing
expanded to other genres as well, including biographies of Queen Victoria,
William Gladstone, and William II of Germany. His reminisces include
As We Were (1 930), As We Are (1 932), and Final Edition (1 940). Benson 's short stories are well known, many displaying strong science fiction
elements. Collections include The Room in the Tower and Other Stories
(1 912), The Countess of Lowndes Square (1 912), Visible and Invisible
(1 923), Spook Stories {1 928), and More Spook Stories (1 934).
"Negotium Perambulans" ("the plague that walks, " in Latin) recalls
M. R. James's "Count Magnus." But here, the victim of the vampiric
creature clearly, even dearly, deserves his end. As for the Thing itself, the
subject of the story, there is hardly a monster in fiction that is quite as
wet and loathsome.
* The Penguin Encyclopedia of Horror and the Supernatural (Viking, 1 986). 
??
T
N
h
E
e
GQTIUM PERAMBULANS
casual tounst m West Cornwall may JUSt possibly have
noticed, as he bowled along over the bare high plateau between Penzance
and the Land's End, a dilapidated signpost pointing down a steep lane
and bearing on its battered finger the faded inscription "Polearn 2 miles,"
but probably very few have had the curiosity to traverse those two miles
in order to see a place to which their guide-books award so cursory a
notice. It is described there, in a couple of unattractive lines, as a small
fishing village with a church of no particular interest except for certain
carved and painted wooden panels (originally belonging to an earlier edifice) which form an altar-rail. But the church at St. Creed (the tourist is
reminded) has a similar decoration far superior in point of preservation
and interest, and thus even the ecclesiastically disposed are not lured to
Polearn. So meager a bait is scarce worth swallowing, and a glance at the
very steep lane which in dry weather presents a carpet of sharp-pointed
stones, and after rain a muddy watercourse, will almost certainly decide
him not to expose his motor or his bicycle to risks like these in so sparsely
populated a district. Hardly a house has met his eye since he left Penzance,
and the possible trundling of a punctured bicycle for half a dozen weary
miles seems a high price to pay for the sight of a few painted panels.
Polearn, therefore, even in the high noon of the tourist season, is little
liable to invasion, and for the rest of the year I do not suppose that a
couple of folk a day traverse those two miles (long ones at that) of steep
and stony gradient. I am not forgetting the postman in this exiguous
estimate, for the days are few when, leaving his pony and cart at the top
of the hill, he goes as far as the village, since but a few hundred yards
down the lane there stands a large white box, like a sea-trunk, by the
side of the road, with a slit for letters and a locked door. Should he have
in his wallet a registered letter or be the bearer of a parcel too large for
insertion in the square lips of the sea-trunk, he must needs trudge down
the hill and deliver the troublesome missive, leaving it in person on the
owner, and receiving some small reward of coin or refreshment for his
kindness. But such occasions are rare, and his general routine is to take
out of the box such letters as may have been deposited there, and insert
in their place such letters as he has brought. These will be called for,
perhaps that day or perhaps the next, by an emissary from the Polearn
post-office. As for the fishermen of the place, who, in their export trade,
constitute the chief link of movement between Polearn and the outside
world, they would not dream of taking their catch up the steep lane and
so, with six miles farther of travel, to the market at Penzance. The sea 
E. F. BENSON ? 275
route is shorter and easier, and they deliver their wares to the pier-head.
Thus, though the sole industry of Polearn is sea-fishing, you will get no
fish there unless you have bespoken your requirements to one of the fishermen. Back come the trawlers as empty as a haunted house, while their
spoils are in the fish-train that is speeding to London.
Such isolation of a little community, continued, as it has been, for
centuries, produces isolation in the individual as well, and nowhere will
you find greater independence of character than among the people of
Polearn. But they are linked together, so it has always seemed to me, by
some mysterious comprehension: it is as if they had all been initiated into
some ancient rite, inspired and framed by forces visible and invisible. The
winter storms that batter the coast, the vernal spell of the spring, the hot,
still summers, the season of rains and autumnal decay, have made a spell
which, line by line, has been communicated to them, concerning the powers, evil and good, that rule the world, and manifest themselves in ways
benignant or terrible ...
I came to Polearn first at the age of ten, a small boy, weak and sickly,
and threatened with pulmonary trouble. My father's business kept him in
London, while for me abundance of fresh air and a mild climate were
considered essential conditions if I was to grow to manhood. His sister
had married the vicar of Polearn., Richard Bolitho, himself native to the
place, and so it came about that I spent three years, as a paying guest,
with my relations. Richard Bolitho owned a fine house in the place, which
he inhabited in preference to the vicarage, which he let to a young artist,
John Evans, on whom the spell of Polearn had fallen for from year's
beginning to year's end he never let it. There was a solid roofed shelter,
open on one side to the air, built for me in the garden, and here I lived
and slept, passing scarcely one hour out of the twenty-four behind walls
and windows. I was out on the bay with the fisher-folk, or wandering
along the gorse-clad cliffs that climbed steeply to right and left of the
deep combe where the village lay, or pottering about on the pier-head, or
bird's-nesting in the bushes with the boys of the village. Except on Sunday
and for the few daily hours of my lessons, I might do what I pleased so
long as I remained in the open air. About the lessons there was nothing
formidable; my uncle conducted me through flowering bypaths among the
thickets of arithmetic, and made pleasant excursions into the elements of
Latin grammar, and above all, he made me daily give him an account, in
clear and grammatical sentences, of what had been occupying my mind
or my movements. Should I select to tell him about a walk along the
cliffs, my speech must be orderly, not vague, slip-shod notes of what I
had observed. In this way, too, he trained my observation, for he would
bid me tell him what flowers were in bloom, and what birds hovered
fishing over the sea or were building in the bushes. For that I owe him a
perennial gratitude, for to observe and to express my thoughts in the clear
spoken word became my life's profession. 
276 ?
?)}.)}IJJ NEGOTIUM P ERAMBULANS
But far more formidable than my weekday tasks was the prescribed
routine for Sunday. Some dark embers compounded of Calvinism and
mysticism smoldered in my uncle's soul, and made it a day of terror. His
sermon in the morning scorched us with a foretaste of the eternal fires
reserved for unrepentant sinners, and he was hardly less terrifying at the
children's service in the afternoon. Well do I remember his exposition of
the doctrine of guardian angels. A child, he said, might think himself
secure in such angelic care, but let him beware of committing any of those
numerous offenses which would cause his guardian to turn his face from
him, for as sure as there were angels to protect us, there were also evil
and awful presences which were ready to pounce; and on them he dwelt
with peculiar gusto. Well, too, do I remember in the morning sermon his
commentary on the carved panels of the altar-rails to which I have already
alluded. There was the angel of the Annunciation there, and the angel of
the Resurrection, but not less was there the witch of End or, and, on the
fourth panel, a scene that concerned me most of all. This fourth panel
(he came down from his pulpit to trace its time-worn features) represented
the lych-gate of the church-yard at Polearn itself, and indeed the resemblance when thus pointed out was remarkable. In the entry stood the
figure of a robed priest holding up a Cross, with which he faced a terrible
creature like a gigantic slug, that reared itself up in front of him. That,
so ran my uncle's interpretation, was some evil agency, such as he had
spoken about to us children, of almost infinite malignity and power, which
could alone be combated by firm faith and a pure heart. Below ran the
legend "Negotium perambulans in tenebris" from the ninety-first Psalm.
We should find it translated there, "the pestilence that walketh in darkness," which but feebly rendered the Latin. It was more deadly to the
soul than any pestilence that can only kill the body: it was the Thing, the
Creature, the Business that trafficked in the outer Darkness, a minister of
God's wrath on the unrighteous ...
I could see, as he spoke, the looks which the congregation exchanged
with each other, and knew that his words were evoking a surmise, a
remembrance. Nods and whispers passed between them, they understood
to what he alluded, and with the inquisitiveness of boyhood I could not
rest till I had wormed the story out of my friends among the fisher-boys,
as, next morning, we sat basking and naked in the sun after our bathe.
One knew one bit of it, one another, but it pieced together into a truly
alarming legend. In bald outline it was as follows:
A church far more ancient than that in which my uncle terrified us
every Sunday had once stood not three hundred yards away, on the shelf
of level ground below the quarry from which its stones were hewn. The
owner of the land had pulled this down, and erected for himself a house
on the same site out of these materials, keeping, in a very ecstasy of
wickedness, the altar, and on this he dined and played dice afterwards.
But as he grew old some black melancholy seized him, and he would have 
E. F. BENSON ? 277
lights burning there all night, for he had deadly fear of the darkness. On
one winter evening there sprang up such a gale as was never before
known, which broke in the windows of the room where he had supped,
and extinguished the lamps. Yells of terror brought in his servants, who
found him lying on the floor with the blood streaming from his throat.
As they entered some huge black shadow seemed to move away from him,
crawled across the floor and up the wall and out of the broken window.
"There he lay a-dying," said the last of my informants, "and him that
had been a great burly man was withered to a bag o' skin, for the critter
had drained all the blood from him. His last breath was a scream, and
he hollered out the same words as pass on read off the screen."
"Negotium perambulans in tenebris, " I suggested eagerly.
"Thereabouts. Latin anyhow."
"And after that?" I asked.
"Nobody would go near the place, and the old house rotted and fell
in ruins till three years ago, when along comes Mr. Dooliss from Penzance,
and built the half of it up again. But he don't care much about such
critters, nor about Latin neither. He takes his bottle of whisky a day and
gets drunk's a lord in the evening. Eh, I'm gwine home to my dinner."
Whatever the authenticity of the legend, I had certainly heard the truth
about Mr. Dooliss from Penzance, who from that day became an object
of keen curiosity on my part, the more so because the quarry-house adjoined my uncle's garden. The Thing that walked in the dark failed to stir
my imagination, and already I was so used to sleeping alone in my shelter
that the night had no terrors for me. But it would be intensely exciting
to wake at some timeless hour and hear Mr. Dooliss yelling, and conjecture that the Thing had got him.
But by degrees the whole story faded from my mind, overscored by the
more vivid interests of the day, and, for the last two years of my outdoor life in the vicarage garden, I seldom thought about Mr. Dooliss and
the possible fate that might await him for his temerity in living in the
place where that Thing of darkness had done business. Occasionally I saw
him over the garden fence, a great yellow lump of a man, with slow and
staggering gait, but never did I set eyes on him outside his gate, either in
the village street or down on the beach. He interfered with none, and no
one interfered with him. If he wanted to run the risk of being the prey
of the legendary nocturnal monster, or quietly drink himself to death, it
was his affair. My uncle, so I gathered, had made several attempts to see
him when first he came to live at Polearn, but Mr. Dooliss appeared to
have no use for parsons, but said he was not at home and never returned
the call.
After three years of sun, wind, and rain, I had completely outgrown my
early symptoms and had become a tough, strapping youngster of thirteen.
I was sent to Eton and Cambridge:, and in due course ate my dinners and 
278 ? ?IDJWI NEGOTIUM P ERAMBULANS
became a barrister. In twenty years from that time I was earning a yearly
income of five figures, and had already laid by in sound securities a sum
that brought me dividends which would, for one of my simple tastes and
frugal habits, supply me with all the material comforts I needed on this
side of the grave. The great prizes of my profession were already within
my reach, but I had no ambition beckoning me on, nor did I want a wife
and children, being, I must suppose, a natural celibate. In fact there was
only one ambition which through these busy years had held the lure of
blue and far-off hills to me, and that was to get back to Polearn, and live
once more isolated from the world with the sea and the gorse-clad hills
for play-fellows, and the secrets that lurked there for exploration. The
spell of it had been woven about my heart, and I can truly say that there
had hardly passed a day in all those years in which the thought of it and
the desire for it had been wholly absent from my mind. Though I had
been in frequent communication with my uncle there during his lifetime,
and, after his death, with his widow who still lived there, I had never
been back to it since I embarked on my profession, for I knew that if I
went there, it would be a wrench beyond my power to tear myself away
again. But I had made up my mind that when once I had provided for
my own independence, I would go back there not to leave it again. And
yet I did leave it again, and now nothing in the world would induce me to
turn down the lane from the road that leads from Penzance to the Land's
End, and see the sides of the com be rise steep above the roofs of the village
and hear the gulls chiding as they fish in the bay. One of the things invisible,
of the dark powers, leaped into light, and I saw it with my eyes.
The house where I had spent those three years of boyhood had been
left for life to my aunt, and when I made known to her my intention of
coming back to Polearn, she suggested that, till I found a suitable house
or found her proposal unsuitable, I should come to live with her.
"The house is too big for a lone old woman," she wrote, "and I have
often thought of quitting and taking a little cottage sufficient for me and
my requirements. But come and share it, my dear, and if you find me
troublesome, you or I can go. You may want solitude-most people in
Polearn do-and will leave me. Or else I will leave you: one of the main
reasons of my 'stopping here all these years was a feeling that I must not
let the old house starve. Houses starve, you know, if they are not lived
in. They die a lingering death; the spirit in them grows weaker and
weaker, and at last fades out of them. Isn't this nonsense to your London notions? ... "
Naturally I accepted with warmth this tentative arrangement, and on
an evening in June found myself at the head of the lane leading down to
Polearn, and once more I descended into the steep valley between the hills.
Time had stood still apparently for the combe, the dilapidated signpost (or
its successor) pointed a rickety finger down the lane, and a few hundred
yards farther on was the white box for the exchange of letters. Point after 
E. F. BENSON ? 279
remembered point met my eye, and what I saw was not shrunk, as is
often the case with the revisited scenes of childhood, into a smaller scale.
There stood the post-office, and there the church and close beside it the
vicarage, and beyond, the tall shrubberies which separated the house for
which I was bound from the road, and beyond that again the gray roofs
of the quarry-house damp and shining with the moist evening wind from
the sea. All was exactly as I remembered it, and, above all, that sense of
seclusion and isolation. Somewhere above the tree-tops climbed the lane
which joined the main road to Penzance, but all that had become immeasurably distant. The years that had passed since last I turned in at the
well-known gate faded like a frosty breath, and vanished in this warm,
soft air. There were law-courts somewhere in memory's dull book which,
if I cared to turn the pages, would tell me that I had made a name and
a great income there. But the dull book was closed now, for I was back
in Polearn, and the spell was woven around me again.
And if Polearn was unchanged, so too was Aunt Hester, who met me
at the door. Dainty and china-whllte she had always been, and the years
had not aged but only refined her. As we sat and talked after dinner she
spoke of all that had happened in Polearn in that score of years, and yet
somehow the changes of which she spoke seemed but to confirm the
immutability of it all. As the recollection of names came back to me, I
asked her about the quarry-house and Mr. Dooliss, and her face gloomed
a little as with the shadow of a cloud on a spring day.
"Yes, Mr. Dooliss," she said, "poor Mr. Dooliss, how well I remember
him, though it must be ten years and more since he died. I never wrote
to you about it, for it was all very dreadful, my dear, and I did not want
to darken your memories of Polearn. Your uncle always thought that
something of the sort might happen if he went on in his wicked, drunken
ways, and worse than that, and though nobody knew exactly what took
place, it was the sort of thing that might have been anticipated."
"But what more or less happened, Aunt Hester ?" I asked.
"Well, of course I can't tell you everything, for no one knew it. But he
was a very sinful man, and the scandal about him at Newlyn was shocking. And then he lived, too, in the quarry-house ... I wonder if by any
chance you remember a sermon of your uncle's when he got out of the
pulpit and explained that panel in the altar-rails, the one, I mean, with
the horrible creature rearing itself up outside the lych-gate?"
"Yes, I remember perfectly," said I.
"Ah. It made an impression on you, I suppose, and so it did on all
who heard him, and that impression got stamped and branded on us all
when the catastrophe occurred. Somehow Mr. Dooliss got to hear about
your uncle's sermon, and in some drunken fit he broke into the church
and smashed the panel to atoms. He seems to have thought that there
was some magic in it, and that if he destroyed that he would get rid of
the terrible fate that was threatening him. For I must tell you that before 
280 ?NEGOTIUM PERAMBULANS
he committed that dreadful sacrilege he had been a haunted man: he hated
and feared darkness, for he thought that the creature on the panel was
on his track, but that as long as he kept lights burning it could not touch
him. But the panel, to his disordered mind, was the root of his terror,
and so, as I said, he broke into the church and attempted-you will see
why I said 'attempted'-to destroy it. It certainly was found in splinters
next morning, when your uncle went into church for matins, and knowing
Mr. Dooliss's fear of the panel, he went across to the quarry-house afterwards and taxed him with its destruction. The man never denied it; he
boasted of what he had done. There he sat, though it was early morning,
drinking his whisky.
" 'I've settled your Thing for you,' he said, 'and your sermon too. A
fig for such superstitions.'
"Your uncle left him without answering his blasphemy, meaning to go
straight into Penzance and give information to the police about this outrage to the church, but on his way back from the quarry-house he went
into the church again, in order to be able to give details about the damage,
and there in the screen was the panel, untouched and uninjured. And yet
he had himself seen it smashed, and Mr. Dooliss had confessed that the
destruction of it was his work. But there it was, and whether the power
of God had mended it or some other power, who knows?"
This was Polearn indeed, and it was the spirit of Polearn that made me
accept all Aunt Hester was telling me as attested fact. It had happened
like that. She went on in her quiet voice.
"Your uncle recognized that some power beyond police was at work,
and he did not go to Penzance or give informations about the outrage,
for the evidence of it had vanished ."
A sudden spate of skepticism swept over me.
"There must have been some mistake,'' I said. "It hadn't been
broken ... "
She smiled.
"Yes, my dear, but you have been in London so long," she said. "Let
me, anyhow, tell you the rest of my story. That night, for some reason,
I could not sleep. It was very hot and airless; I dare say you will think
that the sultry conditions accounted for my wakefulness. Once and again,
as I went to the window to see if I could not admit more air, I could see
from it the quarry-house, and I noticed the first time that l left my bed
that it was blazing with lights. But the second time that I saw that it was
all in darkness, and as l wondered at that, I heard a terrible scream, and
the moment afterwards the steps of someone coming at full speed down
the road outside the gate. He yelled as he ran; 'Light, light!' he called
out. 'Give me light, or it will catch me!' It was very terrible to hear that,
and I went to rouse my husband, who was sleeping in the dressing-room
across the passage. He wasted no time, but by now the whole village was
aroused by the screams, and when he got down to the pier he found that 
E. F. B ENSON ? 281
all was over. The tide was low, and on the rocks at its foot was lying the
body of Mr. Dooliss. He must have cut some artery when he fell on those
sharp edges of stone, for he had bled to death, they thought, and though
he was a big burly man, his corps<: was but skin and bones. Yet there
was no pool of blood round him, such as you would have expected. Just
skin and bones as if every drop of blood in his body had been sucked
out of him!"
She leaned forward.
"You and I, my dear, know what happened," she said, "or at least can
guess. God has His instruments of vengeance on those who bring wickedness into places that have been holy. Dark and mysterious are His
ways."
Now what I should have thought of such a story if it had been told
me in London I can easily imagin,?. There was such an obvious explanation: the man in question had been a drunkard, what wonder if the
demons of delirium pursued him? But here in Polearn it was different.
"And who is in the quarry-house now?" I asked. "Years ago the fisherboys told me the story of the man who first built it and of his horrible
end. And now again it has happened. Surely no one has ventured to
inhabit it once more ?"
I saw in her face, even before I asked that question, that somebody had
done so.
"Yes, it is lived in again," said she, "for there is no end to the
blindness ... I don't know if you remember him. He was tenant of the
vicarage many years ago."
"John Evans," said I.
"Yes. Such a nice fellow he was too. Your uncle was pleased to get so
good a tenant. And now-"
She rose.
"Aunt Hester, you shouldn't leave your sentences unfinished," I said.
She shook her head.
"My dear, that sentence will finish itself," she said. "But what a time
of night! I must go to bed, and you too, or they will think we have to
keep lights burning here through the dark hours."
Before getting into bed I drew my curtains wide and opened all the windows to the warm tide of the sea air that flowed softly in. Looking out
into the garden I could see in the moonlight the roof of the shelter, in
which for three years I had lived, gleaming with dew. That, as much as
anything, brought back the old days to which I had now returned, and
they seemed of one piece with the present, as if no gap of more than
twenty years sundered them. The two flowed into one like globules of
mercury uniting into a softly shining globe, of mysterious lights and reflections. Then, raising my eyes a little, I saw against the black hill-side
the windows of the quarry-house still alight. 
282 ?
?J }IJJ N EGOTIUM P ERAMBULANS
Morning, a s i s s o often the case, brought no shattering of my illusion.
As I began to regain consciousness, I fancied that I was a boy again
waking up in the shelter in the garden, and though, as I grew more widely
awake, I smiled at the impression, that on which it was based I found to
be indeed true. It was sufficient now as then to be here, to wander again
on the cliffs, and hear the popping of the ripened seed-pods on the gorsebushes; to stray along the shore to the bathing-cove, to float and drift
and swim in the warm tide, and bask on the sand, and watch the gulls
fishing, to lounge on the pier-head with the fisher-folk, to see in their eyes
and hear in their quiet speech the evidence of secret things not so much
known to them as part of their instincts and their very being. There were
powers and presences about me; the white poplars that stood by the
stream that babbled down the valley knew of them, and showed a glimpse
of their knowledge sometimes, like the gleam of their white underleaves;
the very cobbles that paved the street were soaked in it ... All that I
wanted was to lie there and grow soaked in it too; unconsciously, as a
boy, I had done that, but now the process must be conscious. I must
know what stir of forces, fruitful and mysterious, seethed along the hillside at noon, and sparkled at night on the sea. They could be known,
they could even be controlled by those who were masters of the spell, but
never could they be spoken of, for they were dwellers in the innermost,
grafted into the eternal life of the world. There were dark secrets as well as
these clear, kindly powers, and to these no doubt belonged the negotium
perambulans in tenebris which, though of deadly malignity, might be regarded not only as evil, but as the avenger of sacrilegious and impious
deeds ... All this was part of the spell of Polearn, of which the seeds
had long lain dormant in me. But now they were sprouting, and who
knew what strange flower would unfold on their stems?
It was not long before I came across John Evans. One morning, as I
lay on the beach, there came shambling across the sand a man stout and
middle-aged with the face of Silenus. He paused as he drew near and
regarded me from narrow eyes.
"Why, you're the little chap that used to live in the parson's garden,"
he said. "Don't you recognize me ?"
I saw who it was when he spoke: his voice, I think, instructed me, and
recognizing it, I could see the features of the strong, alert young man in
this gross caricature.
"Yes, you're John Evans," I said. "You used to be very kind to me:
you used to draw pictures for me."
"So I did, and I'll draw you some more. Been bathing? That's a risky
performance. You never know what lives in the sea, nor what lives on
the land for that matter. Not that I heed them. I stick to work and whisky.
God! I've learned to paint since I saw you, and drink too for that matter.
I live in the quarry-house, you know, and it's a powerful thirsty place.
Come and have a look at my things if you're passing. Staying with your 
E. F. BENSON ? 283
aunt, are you? I could do a wonderful portrait of her. Interesting face;
she knows a lot. People who live at Polearn get to know a lot, though I
don't take much stock in that sort of knowledge myself."
I do not know when I have been at once so repelled and interested.
Behind the mere grossness of the face there lurked something which, while
it appalled, yet fascinated me. His thick lisping speech had the same quality. And his paintings, what would they be like? ...
"I was just going home," I said. "I'll gladly come in, if you'll allow me."
He took me through the untended and overgrown garden into the house
which I had never yet entered. A gn:at gray cat was sunning itself in the
window, and an old woman was laying lunch in a corner of the cool hall
into which the door opened. It was built of stone, and the carved moldings
let into the walls, the fragments of gargoyles and sculptured images, bore
testimony to the truth of its having been built out of the demolished
church. In one corner was an oblong and carved wooden table littered
with a painter's apparatus and stacks of canvases leaned against the walls.
He jerked his thumb towards a head of an angel that was built into
the mantelpiece and giggled.
"Quite a sanctified air," he said, "so we tone it down for the purposes
of ordinary life by a different sort of art. Have a drink? No? Well, turn
over some of my pictures while I put myself to rights."
He was justified in his own estimate of his skill: he could paint (and
apparently he could paint anything), but never have I seen pictures so
inexplicably hellish. There were exquisite studies of trees, and you knew
that something lurked in the flickering shadows. There was a drawing of
his cat sunning itself in the window, even as I had just now seen it, and
yet it was no cat but some beast of awful malignity. There was a boy
stretched naked on the sands, not human, but some evil thing which had
come out of the sea. Above all there were pictures of his garden overgrown
and jungle-like, and you knew that in the bushes were presences ready to
spring out on you ...
"Well, do you like my style?" he said as he came up, glass in hand.
(The tumbler of spirits that he held had not been diluted.) "I try to paint
the essence of what I see, not the mere husk and skin of it, but its nature,
where it comes from and what gave it birth. There's much in common
between a cat and a fuchsia-bush if you look at them closely enough.
Everything came out of the slime of the pit, and it's all going back there.
I should like to do a picture of you some day. I'd hold the mirror up to
Nature, as that old lunatic said."
After the first meeting I saw him occasionally throughout the months
of that wonderful summer. Often he kept to his house and to his painting
for days together, and then perhaps some evening I would find him lounging on the pier, always alone, and every time we met thus the repulsion
and interest grew, for every time he seemed to have gone farther along a 
284 ?
?)_)]}kll N EGOTIUM P ERAMBULANS
path of secret knowledge towards some evil shrine where complete initiation awaited him ... And then suddenly the end came.
I had met him thus one evening on the cliffs while the October sunset
still burned in the sky, but over it with amazing rapidity there spread
from the west a great blackness of cloud such as I have never seen for
denseness. The light was sucked from the sky, the dusk fell in ever thicker
layers. He suddenly became conscious of this.
"I must get back as quick as I can," he said. "It will be dark in a few
minutes, and my servant is out. The lamps will not be lit."
He stepped out with extraordinary briskness for one who shambled and
could scarcely lift his feet, and soon broke out into a stumbling run. In
the gathering darkness I could see that his face was moist with the dew
of some unspoken terror.
"You must come with me," he panted, "for so we shall get the lights
burning the sooner. I cannot do without light."
I had to exert myself to the full to keep up with him, for terror winged
him, and even so I fell behind, so that when I came to the garden gate,
he was already half-way up the path to the house. I saw him enter, leaving
the door wide, and found him fumbling with matches. But his hand so
trembled that he could not transfer the light to the wick of the lamp.
"But what's the hurry about?" I asked.
Suddenly his eyes focused themselves on the open door behind me, and
he jumped from his seat beside the table which had once been the altar
of God, with a gasp and a scream.
"No, no!" he cried. "Keep it off! ... "
I turned and saw what he had seen. The Thing had entered and now
was swiftly sliding across the floor towards him, like some gigantic caterpillar. A stale phosphorescent light came from it, for though the dusk had
grown to blackness outside, I could see it quite distinctly in the awful
light of its own presence. From it too there came an odor of corruption
and decay, as from slime that has long lain below water. It seemed to
have no head, but on the front of it was an orifice of puckered skin which
opened and shut and slavered at the edges. It was hairless, and slug-like
in shape and in texture. As it advanced its fore-part reared itself from the
ground, like a snake about to strike, and it fastened on him ...
At that sight, and with the yells of his agony in my ears, the panic
which had struck me relaxed into a hopeless courage, and with palsied,
impotent hands I tried to lay hold of the Thing. But I could not: though
something material was there, it was impossible to grasp it; my hands
sunk in it as in thick mud. It was like wrestling with a nightmare.
I think that but a few seconds elapsed before all was over. The screams
of the wretched man sank to moans and mutterings as the Thing fell on
him: he panted once or twice and was still. For a moment longer there
came gurglings and sucking noises, and then it slid out even as it had
entered. I lit the lamp which he had fumbled with, and there on the floor
he lay, no more than a rind of skin in loose folds over projecting bones. 
ROGER ZELAZNY
(193?-1995)
Roger Zelazny, a Hugo and Nebula award-winning writer, grew up zn
Euclid, Ohio. He earned an undergraduate degree from Case Western
Reserve University and a masters degree from Columbia University. He
was employed by the Social Security Administration from 1 962 to 1 969
in Cleveland and Baltimore, after which he wrote full time. He published
his first story, "Passion Play, " in Amazing Stories magazine in 1 962. He
eventually took on the pseudonym Harrison Denmark.
In the 1 960s, Zelazny became a leading figure of the "new wave" of
science fiction writing, together with Samuel R. Delany, Thomas M.
Disch, and Ursula K. Le Guin. These authors shifted emphasis from the
external world of the sciences to a more internal, sociological, and psychological perspective.
Zelazny's best early work is assembled in Four for Tomorrow (1 967)
and The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth, and Other Stories
(1 971). Novels include the award-winning Lord of Light (1 967), Isle of
the Dead (1 969), and the immensely popular and critically acclaimed
Amber series, starting with Nine Princes in Amber (1 970). His later works
include Deus Irae (with Phillip K. Dick; 1 976), Doorways in the Sand
(1 976), Roadmarks (1 979), The Last Defender of Camelot (1 980), Uncommon Variations (1 983), and Eye of Cat (1 982). Zelazny's last novel,
Donnerjack (1 997), was co-written with Jane Lindskold, while in one of
his last published works, he completed a novel started by the late Alfred
Bester, entitled Psychoshop (1 998).
"The Stainless Steel Leech" is an ingeniously imagined tragicomedy of
a were-robot (as in were-wolf, were-tiger) whose best friend is a sadly
dwindling vampire, and how the two play out their destiny together. The
story's genial, even comic, tone is a delicate counterpoint to what is essen··
tially a sad account of obsolescence. 
THE STAINLESS STEEL LEECH
m T hoy'" ccan, afmid of rhi• "'""·
During the day they'll clank around the headstones, if they're ordered
to, but even Central can't make them search at night, despite the ultras
and the infras-and they'll never enter a mausoleum.
Which makes things nice for me.
They're superstitious; it's a part of the circuitry. They were designed to
serve man, and during his brief time on earth, awe and devotion, as well
as dread, were automatic things. Even the last man, dead Kennington,
commanded every robot in existence while he lived. His person was a
thing of veneration, and all his orders were obeyed.
And a man is a man, alive or dead-which is why the graveyards are
a combination of hell, heaven, and strange feedback, and will remain
apart from the cities so long as the earth endures.
But even as I mock them they are looking behind the stones and peering
into the gullies. They are searching for-and afraid they might find-me.
I, the unjunked, am legend. Once out of a million assemblies a defective
such as I might appear and go undetected, until too late.
At will, I could cut the circuit that connected me with Central Control,
and be a free 'bot, and master of my own movements. I liked to visit the
cemeteries, because they were quiet and different from the maddening
stamp-stamp of the presses and the clanking of the crowds; I liked to look
at the green and red and yellow and blue things that grew about the
graves. And I did not fear these places, for that circuit, too, was defective.
So when I was discovered they removed my vite-box and threw me on
the j unk heap.
But the next day I was gone, and their fear was great.
I no longer posses a self-contained power unit, but the freak coils within
my chest act as storage batteries. They require frequent recharging, however, and there is only one way to do that.
The werebot is the most frightful legend whispered among the gleaming
steel towers, when the night wind sighs with its burden of fears out of
the past, from days when non-metal beings walked the earth. The halflites; the preyers upon order, still cry darkness within the vite-box of
every 'bot.
I, the discontent, the unjunked, live here in Rosewood Park, among the
dogwood and myrtle, the headstones and broken angels, with Fritz-another legend-in our deep and peaceful mausoleum
Fritz is a vampire, which is a terrible and tragic thing. He is so undernourished that he can no longer move about, but he cannot die either, so 
ROGER ZELAZNY ? 287
he lies in his casket and dreams of times gone by. One day, he will ask
me to carry him outside into the sunlight, and I will watch him shrivel
and dim into peace and nothingness and dust. I hope he does not ask
me soon.
We talk. At night, when the moon is full and he feel strong enough, he
tells me of his better days, in places called Austria and Hungary, where
he, too, was feared and hunted.
" ... But only a stainless steel leech can get blood out of a stone-or
a robot," he said last night. "It is a proud and lovely thing to be a stainless
steel leech-you are possibly the only one of your kind in existence. Live
up to your reputation! Hound them! Drain them! Leave your mark on a
thousand steel throats!"
And he was right. He is always right. And he knows more about these
things than I.
"Kennington!" his thin, bloodless lips smiled. "Oh, what a duel we
fought! He was the last man on earth, and I the last vampire. For ten
years I tried to drain him. I got at him twice, but he was from the Old
Country and knew what precautions to take. Once he learned of my
existence, he issued a wooden stake to every robot-but J had forty-two
graves in those days and they never found me. They did come close,
though ....
"But at night, ah, at night! " he chuckled. "Then things were reversed!
I was the hunter and he the prey!
"I remember his frantic questing after the last few sprays of garlic and
wolfsbane on earth, the crucifix assembly lines he kept in operation
around the dock-irreligious soul that he was! I was genuinely sorry when
he died, in peace. Not so much because I hadn't gotten to drain him
properly, but because he was a worthy opponent and a suitable antagonist. What a game we played!"
His husky voiced weakened.
"He sleeps a scant three hundred paces from here, bleaching and dry.
His is the great marble tomb by the gate .... Please gather roses tomorrow
and place them upon it."
I agreed .that I would, for there is a closer kinship between the two of
us than between myself and any 'bot, despite the dictates of resemblance.
And I must keep my word, before this day passes into evening and al·­
though there are searchers above, for such is the law of my nature.
"Damn them! (He taught me that word.) Damn them!" I say. "I'm coming
up! Beware, gentle 'hots! I shall wallk among you and you shall not know
me. I shall join in the search, and you will think I am one of you. I shall
gather the red flowers for dead Kennington, rubbing shoulders with you,
and Fritz will smile at the joke."
I climb the cracked and hollow s teps, the east already spilling twilight,
and the sun half-lidded in the west. 
288 ?
MJ¥Ji THE STAINLESS STEEL L EECH
I emerge.
The roses live on the wall across the road. From great twisting tubes
of vine, with heads brighter than any rust, they burn like danger lights
on a control panel, but moistly.
One, two, three roses for Kennington. Four, five ...
"What are you doing, 'bot?"
"Gathering roses."
"You are supposed to be searching for the werebot. Has something
damaged you?"
"No, I'm all right," I say, and I fix him where he stands, by bumping
against his shoulder. The circuit completed, I drain his vite-box until I
am filled.
"You are the werebot!" he intones weakly.
He falls with a crash .
. . . Six, seven, eight roses for Kennington, dead Kennington, dead as
the 'bot at my feet-more dead-for he once lived a full, organic life,
nearer to Fritz's or my own than to theirs.
"What happened here, 'bot?"
"He is stopped, and I am picking roses," I tell them.
There are four 'bots and an Over.
"It is time you left this place," I say. "Shortly it will be night and the
werebot will walk. Leave, or he will end you."
"You stopped him!" says the Over. "You are the werebot!"
I bunch all the flowers against my chest with one arm and turn to face
them. The Over, a large special-order 'bot, moves toward me. Others are
approaching from all directions. He had sent out a call.
"You are a strange and terrible thing," he is saying, "and you must be
j unked, for the sake of the community."
He seizes me and l drop Kennington's flowers.
I cannot drain him. My coils are already loaded near their capacity,
and he is specially insulated.
There are dozens around me now, fearing and hating. They will j unk
me and I will lie beside Kennington.
"Rust in peace," they will say .... I am sorry that I cannot keep my
promise to Fritz.
"Release him!"
No!
It is shrouded and moldering Fritz in the doorway of the mausoleum,
swaying, clutching at the stone. He always knows ....
"Release him! I, a human, order it."
He is ashen and gasping, and the sunlight is doing awful things to him.
-The ancient circuits click and suddenly I am free.
"Yes, master," says the Over. "We did not know.
"Seize that robot!"
He points a shaking emaciated finger at him. 
RoGER ZELAZNY ? 289
"He is the werebot," he gasps. "Destroy him! The one gathering flowers
was obeying my orders. Leave him here with me."
He falls to his knees and the final darts of day pierce his flesh.
"And go! All the rest of you! Quickly! It is my order that no robot
ever enter another graveyard again!"
He collapses within and I know that now there are only bones and bits
of rotted shroud on the doorstep of our home.
Fritz has had his final joke-a human masquerade.
I take the roses to Kennington, as the silent 'bots file out through the
gate forever, bearing the unprotesting Overbot with them. I place the roses
at the foot of the monument-Kennington's and Fritz's-the monument
of the last, strange, truly living ones.
Now only I remain unjunked.
In the final light of the sun I see them drive a stake through the Over's
vite-box and bury him at the crossroads.
Then they hurry back toward their towers of steel, of plastic.
I gather up what remains of Fritz and carry him down to his box. The
bones are brittle and silent .
. . . It is a very proud and very lonely thing to be a stainless steel leech. 
TANITH LEE
(b. 1947)
Tanith Lee, who has written children's books and sword-and-sorcery novels for adults, is the master of a truly distinguished and sensuous prose
style. Her first fantasy novel, The Birthgrave, was published in 1 975; since
then she has published more than fifty books and 130 short stories. Her
novels include the Scarabae Blood Opera series, which began with Dark
Dance (1 992); her Unicorn seriess for young adults including Black Unicorn (1 991), Gold Unicorn (1 993), and Red Unicorn (1 997); as well as
Lycanthia (1 981), Anackire (1 983), and The Gods Are Thirsty (1 996).
Lee has also written dozens of short stories collected into many volumes,
among them Dreams of Dark and Light (1 986), Forests of the Night
(1 989), and Women as Demons: The Male Perception of Women Through
Space and Time (1 989).
The originality and poetic power of "Bite-Me-Not or, Fleur de Feu" is
truly astonishing. This is a simple Cinderella tale transformed into an epic
romance. Rohise, the little slave in the duke's kitchen, is our Cinderella,
living within a castle sealed against the intrusion of a race of vampires.
The magnificent black-winged vampire prince, Feroluce, finds a way to
break into the castle. There he is set upon by a chained lion that wounds
him, allowing him to be captured and caged by the inhabitants of the
castle. Though Rohise falls in love with him, he is doomed to be killed
at dawn and to have his blood poured over the plant known as (leur de
(leu or flower of fire. This plant grows in a secret garden of the castle,
and its flower, if it ever blooms, repels vampires.
The rest of the story explores the slow progress toward love of these
two, Rohise and Feroluce, who are different species. With such vast differences between them, it takes Lee's truly epic imagination to bring these
two together in a believable way.
Lee's prose is baroque, richly metaphoric. At its best, as in this story,
her imagery is perfect for the sort of medieval allegorical tapestry she is
weaving. The language is grandiose indeed, but so is the conception she
has of her story. That her prose should slip perceptibly into near poetry
is not surprising.
One last word: the reader should not have qualms about the quasiFrench verses that Lee uses from time to time. Invariably, their meaning
is made clear within the text itself. 
BITE-ME-NOT OR, FLEUR DE FEU
? In th' tmditinn nf young gid• ond window•, th' young gid
looks out of this one. It is difficult to see anything. The panes of the
window are heavily leaded, and secured by a lattice of iron. The stained
glass of lizard-green and storm-purple is several inches thick. There is no
red glass in the window. The color red is forbidden in the castle. Even
the sun, behind the glass, is a storm sun, a green-lizard sun.
The young girl wishes she had a gown of palest pastel rose-the nearest
affinity to red which is never allowed. Already she has long dark beautiful
eyes, a long white neck. Her long hair is however hidden in a dusty scarf
and she wears rags. She is a scullery maid. As she scours dishes and mops
stone floors, she imagines she is a princess floating through the upper
corridors, gliding to the dais in the Duke's hall. The Cursed Duke. She is
sorry for him. If he had been her father, she would have sympathized and
consoled him. His own daughter is dead, as his wife is dead, but these
things, being to do with the cursing, are never spoken of. Except, sometimes, obliquely.
"Rohise!" dim voices cry now, full of dim scolding soon to be
actualized.
The scullery maid turns from the window and runs to have her ears
boxed and a broom thrust into her hands.
Meanwhile, the Cursed Duke is prowling his chamber, high in the East
Turret carved with swans and gargoyles. The room is lined with books,
swords, lutes, scrolls, and has two eerie portraits, the larger of which
represents his wife, and the smaller his daughter. Both ladies look much
the same with their pale, egg-shaped faces, polished eyes, clasped hands.
They do not really look like his wife or daughter, nor really remind him
of them.
There are no windows at all in !the turret, they were long ago bricked
up and covered with hangings. Candles burn steadily. It is always night
in the turret. Save, of course, by night there are particular sounds all
about it, to which the Duke is accustomed, but which he does not care
for. By night, like most of his court, the Cursed Duke closes his ears with
softened tallow. However, if he sleeps, he dreams, and hears in the dream
the beating of wings .... Often, the court holds loud revel all night long.
The Duke does not know Rohise the scullery maid has been thinking
of him. Perhaps he does not even know that a scullery maid is capable
of thinking at all.
Soon the Duke descends from the turret and goes down, by various
stairs and curving passages, into a large, walled garden on the east side
of the castle. 
292 ?
?N¥JJ BITE -ME-NOT OR, FLEUR DE FEU
It is a very pretty garden, mannered and manicured, which the gardeners
keep in perfect order. Over the tops of the high, high walls, where delicate
blooms bell the vines, it is just possible to glimpse the tips of sun-baked
mountains. But by day the mountains are blue and spiritual to look at,
and seem scarcely real. They might only be inked on the sky.
A portion of the Duke's court is wandering about in the garden, playing
games or musical instruments, or admiring painted sculptures, or the flora,
none of which is red. But the Cursed Duke's court seems vitiated this
noon. Nights of revel take their toll.
As the Duke passes down the garden, his courtiers acknowledge him
deferentially. He sees them, old and young alike, all doomed as he is, and
the weight of his burden increases.
At the furthest, most eastern end of the garden, there is another garden,
sunken and rather curious, beyond a wall with an iron door. Only the
Duke possesses the key to this door. Now he unlocks it and goes through.
His courtiers laugh and play and pretend not to see. He shuts the door
behind him.
The sunken garden, which no gardener ever tends, is maintained by
other, spontaneous, means. It is small and square, lacking the hedges and
the paths of the other, the sundials and statues and little pools. All the
sunken garden contains is a broad paved border, and at its center a small
plot of humid earth. Growing in the earth is a slender bush with slender
velvet leaves.
The Duke stands and looks at the bush only a short while.
He visits it every day. He has visited it every day for years. He is
waiting for the bush to flower. Everyone is waiting for this. Even Rohise,
the scullery maid, is waiting, though she does not, being only sixteen,
born in the castle and uneducated, properly understand why.
The light in the little garden is dull and strange, for the whole of it is
roofed over by a dome of thick smoky glass. It makes the atmosphere
somewhat depressing, although the bush itself gives off a pleasant smell,
rather resembling vanilla.
Something is cut into the stone rim of the earth-plot where the bush
grows. The Duke reads it for perhaps the thousandth time. 0, fleur de
feuWhen the Duke returns from the little garden into the large garden,
locking the door behind him, no one seems truly to notice. But their
obeisances now are circumspect.
One day, he will perhaps emerge from the sunken garden leaving the
door wide, crying out in a great voice. But not yet. Not today.
The ladies bend to the bright fish in the pools, the knights pluck for
them blossoms, challenge each other to combat at chess, or wrestling,
discuss the menagerie lions; the minstrels sing of unrequited love. The
pleasure garden is full of one long and weary sigh.
"Oh flurda fur 
/)'') ,-:(
TANITH LEE \ lli . r 293
"Pourma souffrance-"
Sings Rohise as she scrubs the flags of the pantry floor.
"Ned ormey par,
"May say day mwar-"
"What are you singing, you slut?" someone shouts, and kicks over
her bucket,
Rohise does not weep. She tidies her bucket and soaks up the spilled
water with her cloths. She does not know what the song, because of
which she seems, apparently, to have been chastised, means. She does not
understand the words that somehow, somewhere-perhaps from her own
dead mother-she learned by rote ..
In the hour before sunset, the Duke's hall is lit by flambeaux. In the
high windows, the casements of oil-blue and lavender glass and glass like
storms and lizards, are fastened tight. The huge window by the dais was
long ago obliterated, shut up, and a tapestry hung of gold and silver tissue
with all the rubies pulled out and emeralds substituted. It describes the
subjugation of a fearsome unicorn by a maiden, and huntsmen.
The court drifts in with its clothes of rainbow from which only the
color red is missing.
Music for dancing plays. The lean pale dogs pace about, alert for tidbits
as dish on dish comes in. Roast birds in all their plumage glitter and die a
second time under the eager knives. Pastry castles fall. Pink and amber fruits,
and green fruits and black, glow beside the goblets of fine yellow wine.
The Cursed Duke eats with care and attention, not with enjoyment.
Only the very young of the castle still eat in that way, and there are not
so many of those.
The murky sun slides through the stained glass. The musicians strike
up more wildly. The dances become boisterous. Once the day goes out,
the hall will ring to chanson, to drum and viol and pipe. The dogs will
bark, no language will be uttered except in a bellow. The lions will roar
from the menagerie. On some nights the cannons are set off from the
battlements, which are now all of them roofed in, fired out through narrow mouths j ust wide enough to accommodate them, the charge crashing
away in thunder down the darkness.
By the time the moon comes up and the castle rocks to its own cacophony, exhausted Rohise has fallen fast asleep in her cupboard bed in the
"!ttic. For years, from sunset to rise, nothing has woken her. Once, as a
child, when she had been especially badly beaten, the pain woke her and
she heard a strange silken scratching, somewhere over her bed. But she
thought it a rat, or a bird. Yes, a bird, for later it seemed to her there
were also wings .... But she forgot all this half a decade 'lgo. Now she
sleeps deeply and dreams of being a princess, forgetting, too, how the
Duke's. daughter died. Such a terrible death, it is better to forget.
"The sun shall not smite thee by day, neither the moon by night," intones
the priest, eyes rolling, his voice like a bell behind the Duke's shoulder. 
>':) .. --:(
2 94 \)\l -? ( BITE-ME-NOT OR, F LEUR DE FEU
"Ne moi mords pas," whispers Rohise in her deep sleep. "Ne mwar
mor par, ne par mor mwar. ... "
And under its impenetrable dome, the slender bush has closed its fur
leaves also to sleep. 0 flower of fire, oh fleur de fur. Its blooms, though
it has not bloomed yet, bear the ancient name Nona Mordica. In light
parlance they call it Bite-Me-Not. There is a reason for that.
He is the Prince of a proud and savage people. The pride they acknowledge, perhaps they do not consider themselves to be savages, or at least
believe that savagery is the proper order of things.
Feroluce, that is his name. It is one of the customary names his kind
give their lords. It has connotations with diabolic royalty and, too, with
a royal flower of long petals curved like scimitars. Also the name might
be the partial anagram of another name. The bearer of that name was
also winged.
For Feroluce and his people are winged beings. They are more like a
nest of dark eagles than anything, mounted high among the rocky pilasters
and pinnacles of the mountain. Cruel and magnificent, like eagles, the
somber sentries motionless as statuary on the ledge-edges, their sable
wings folded about them.
They are very alike in appearance (less a race or tribe, more a flock,
an unkindness of ravens). Feroluce also, black-winged, black-haired, aquiline of feature, standing on the brink of star-dashed space, his eyes burning
through the night like all the eyes along the rocks, depthless red as claret.
They have their own traditions of art and science. They do not make
or read books, fashion garments, discuss God or metaphysics or men.
Their cries are mostly wordless and always mysterious, flung out like
ribbons over the air as they wheel and swoop and hang in wicked cruciform, between the peaks. But they sing, long hours, for whole nights at
a time, music that has a language only they know. All their wisdom and
theosophy, and all their grasp of beauty, truth or love, is in the singing.
They look unloving enough, and so they are. Pitiless fallen angels. A
traveling people, they roam after sustenance. Their sustenance is blood.
Finding a castle, they accepted it, every bastion and wall, as their prey.
They have preyed on it and tried to prey on it for years.
In the beginning, their calls, their songs, could lure victims to the feast.
In this way, the tribe or unkindness of Feroluce took the Duke's wife,
somnambulist, from a midnight balcony. But the Duke's daughter, the
first victim, they found seventeen years ago, benighted on the mountain
side. Her escort and herself they left to the sunrise, marble figures, the
life drunk away.
Now the castle is shut, bolted and barred. They are even more attracted
by its recalcitrance (a woman who says "No"). They do not intend to go
away until the castle falls to them. 
T A NITH LEE ? 295
By night, they fly like huge black moths round and round the carved
turrets, the dull-lit leaded windows, their wings invoking a cloudy tindery
wind, pushing thunder against thundery glass.
They sense they are attributed to some sin, reckoned a punishing curse,
a penance, and this amuses them at the level whereon they understand it.
They also sense something of the flower, the Nona Mordica. Vampires
have their own legends.
But tonight Feroluce launches himself into the air, speeds down the sky
on the black sails of his wings, calling, a call like laughter or derision. This
morning, in the tween-time before the light began and the sun-to-be drove
him away to his shadowed eyrie in the mountain-guts, he saw a chink in
the armor of the beloved refusing-woman-prey. A window, high in an old
neglected tower, a window with a small eyelet which was cracked.
Ferolucc soon reaches the eyelet and breathes on it, as if he would melt
it. (His breath is sweet. Vampires do not eat raw flesh, only blood, which
is a perfect food and digests perfectly, while their teeth are sound of
necessity.) The way the glass mists at breath intrigues Feroluce. But presently he taps at the cranky pane, taps, then claws. A piece breaks away,
and now he sees how it should be done.
Over the rims and upthrusts of the castle, which is only really another
mountain with caves to Feroluce, the rumble of the Duke's revel drones
on.
Feroluce pays no heed. He does not need to reason, he merely knows,
that noise masks this-as he smashes in the window. Its panes were all
faulted and the lattice rusty. It is,, of course, more than that. The magic
of Purpose has protected the castle, and, as in all balances, there must be,
or come to be, some balancing contradiction, some flaw ....
The people of Feroluce do not notice what he is at. In a way, the dance
with their prey has debased to a ritual. They have lived almost two decades on the blood of local mountain beasts, and bird-creatures like themselves brought down on the wing. Patience is not, with them, a virtue. It
is a sort of foreplay, and can go on, in pleasure, a long, long while.
Feroluce intrudes himself through the slender window. Muscularly slender himself, and agile, it is no feat. But the wings catch, are a trouble.
They follow him because they must, like two separate entities. They have
been cut a little on the glass, and bleed.
He stands in a stony small room, shaking bloody feathers from him,
snarling, but without sound.
Then he finds the stairway and goes down.
There are dusty landings and neglected chambers. They have no smell of
life. But then there comes to be a smell. It is the scent of a nest, a colony
of things, wild creatures, in constant proximity. He recognizes it. The light
of his crimson eyes precedes him, deciphering blackness. And then other eyes,
amber, green and gold, spring out like stars all across his path.
Somewhere an old torch is burn1ing out. To the human eye, only mounds 
296 ? \\).:)}lll B ITE-M E-NOT OR, FLEUR DE F EU
and glows would be visible, but to Feroluce, the Prince of the vampires,
all is suddenly revealed. There is a great stone area, barred with bronze
and iron, and things stride and growl behind the bars, or chatter and flee,
or only stare. And there, without bars, though bound by ropes of brass
to rings of brass, three brazen beasts.
Feroluce, on the steps of the menagerie, looks into the gaze of the
Duke's lions. Feroluce smiles, and the lions roar. One is the king, its
mane like war-plumes. Feroluce recognizes the king and the king's right
to challenge, for this is the lions' domain, their territory.
Feroluce comes down the stair and meets the lion as it leaps the length
of its chain. To Feroluce, the chain means nothing, and since he has come
close enough, very little either to the lion.
To the vampire Prince the fight is wonderful, exhilarating and meaningful, intellectual even, for it is colored by nuance, yet powerful as sex.
He holds fast with his talons, his strong limbs wrapping the beast which
is almost stronger than he, just as its limbs wrap him in turn. He sinks
his teeth in the lion's shoulder, and in fierce rage and bliss begins to draw
out the nourishment. The lion kicks and claws at him in turn. Feroluce
feels the gouges like fire along his shoulders, thighs, and hugs the lion
more nearly as he throttles and drinks from it, loving it, jealous of it,
killing it. Gradually the mighty feline body relaxes, still clinging to him,
its cat teeth embedded in one beautiful swanlike wing, forgotten by both.
In a welter of feathers, stripped skin, spilled blood, the lion and the
angel lie in embrace on the menagerie floor. The lion lifts its head, kisses
the assassin, shudders, lets go.
Feroluce glides out from under the magnificent deadweight of the cat.
He stands. And pain assaults him. His lover has severely wounded him.
Across the menagerie floor, the two lionesses are crouched. Beyond
them, a man stands gaping in simple terror, behind the guttering torch.
He had come to feed the beasts, and seen another feeding, and now is
paralyzed. He is deaf, the menagerie-keeper, previously an advantage saving him the horror of nocturnal vampire noises.
Feroluce starts toward the human animal swifter than a serpent, and
checks. Agony envelops Feroluce and the stone room spins. Involuntarily,
confused, he spreads his wings for flight, there in the confined chamber.
But only one wing will open. The other, damaged and partly broken,
hangs like a snapped fan. Feroluce cries out, a beautiful singing note of
despair and anger. He drops fainting at the menagerie keeper's feet.
The man does not wait for more. He runs away through the castle,
screaming invective and prayer, and reaches the Duke's hall and makes
the whole hall listen.
All this while, Feroluce lies in the ocean of almost-death that is sleep
or swoon, while the smaller beasts in the cages discuss him, or seem to.
And when he is raised, Feroluce does not wake. Only the great drooping
bloody wings quiver and are still. Those who carry him are more than 
ever revolted and frightened, for they have seldom seen blood. Even the
food for the menagerie is cooked almost black. Two years ago, a gardener
slashed his palm on a thorn. He was banished from the court for a week.
But Feroluce, the center of so much attention, does not rouse. Not until
the dregs of the night are stealing out through the walls. Then some
nervous instinct invests him. The sun is corning and this is an open place,
he struggles through unconsciousness and hurt, through the deepest most
bladed waters, to awareness.
And finds himself in a huge bronze cage, the cage of some animal
appropriated for the occasion. Bars, bars all about him, and not to be got
rid of, for he reaches to tear them away and cannot. Beyond the bars,
the Duke's hall, which is only a pointless cold glitter to him in the maze
of pain and dying lights. Not an open place, in fact, but too open for his
kind. Through the window-spaces of thick glass, muddy sunglare must
come in. To Feroluce it will be like swords, acids, and burning fireFar off he hears wings beat and voices soaring. His people search for
him, call and wheel and find nothing.
Feroluce cries out, a gravel shriek now, and the persons in the hall rush
back from him, calling on God. But Feroluce does not see. He has tried
to answer his own. Now he sinks down again under the coverlet of his
broken wings, and the wine-red sitars of his eyes go out.
"And the Angel of Death," the priest intones, "shall surely pass over, but
yet like the shadow, not substance--"
The smashed window in the old turret above the menagerie tower has
been sealed with mortar and brick. It is a terrible thing that it was for so
long overlooked. A miracle that only one of the creatures found and
entered by it. God, the Protector, guarded the Cursed Duke and his court.
And the magic that surrounds the castle, that too held fast. For from the
possibility of a disaster was born a bloom of great value: Now one of the
monsters is in their possession. A prize beyond price.
Caged and helpless, the fiend is at their mercy. It is also weak from its
battle with the noble lion, which gave its life for the castle's safety (and
will be buried with honor in an ornamented grave at the foot of the Ducal
family tomb). Just before the dawn came, the Duke's advisers advised
him, and the bronze cage was wheeled away into the darkest area of the
hall, close by the dais where once the huge window was but is no more.
A barricade of great screens was brought, and set around the cage, and
the top of it covered. No sunlight now can drip into the prison to harm
the specimen. Only the Duke's ladies and gentlemen steal in around the
screens and see, by the light of a candlebranch, the demon still lying in
its trance of pain and bloodloss. The Duke's alchemist sits on a stool
nearby, dictating many notes to a nervous apprentice. The alchemist, and
the apothecary for that matter, are convinced the vampire, having drunk 
298 ?
?AJ}IJI B ITE-M E- NOT OR, F LEUR DE FEU
the lion almost dry, will recover from its wounds. Even the wmgs will
mend.
The Duke's court painter also came. He was ashamed presently, and
went away. The beauty of the demon affected him, making him wish to
paint it, not as something wonderfully disgusting, but as a kind of superlative man, vital and innocent, or as Lucifer himself, stricken in the sorrow
of his colossal Fall. And all that has caused the painter to pity the fallen
one, mere artisan that the painter is, so he slunk away. He knows, since
the alchemist and the apothecary told him, what is to be done.
Of course much of the castle knows. Though scarcely anyone has slept
or sought sleep, the whole place rings with excitement and vivacity. The
Duke has decreed, too, that everyone who wishes shall be a witness. So
he is having a progress through the castle, seeking every nook and cranny,
while, let it be said, his architect takes the opportunity to check no other
windowpane has cracked.
From room to room the Duke and his entourage pass, through corridors, along stairs, through dusty attics and musty storerooms he has never
seen, or if seen has forgotten. Here and there some retainer is come on.
Some elderly women are discovered spinning like spiders up under the
eaves, half-blind and complacent. They curtsy to the Duke from a vague
recollection of old habit. The Duke tells them the good news, or rather,
his messenger, walking before, announces it. The ancient women sigh and
whisper, are left, probably forget. Then again, in a narrow courtyard, a
simple boy, who looks after a dovecote, is magnificently told. He has a
fit from alarm, grasping nothing; and the doves who love and understand
him (by not trying to) fly down and cover him with their soft wings as
the Duke goes away. The boy comes to under the doves as if in a heap
of warm snow, comforted.
It is on one of the dark staircases above the kitchen that the gleaming
entourage sweeps round a bend and comes on Rohise the scullery maid,
scrubbing. In these days, when there are so few children and young servants, labor is scarce, and the scullerers are not confined to the scullery.
Rohise stands up, pale with shock, and for a wild instant thinks that,
for some heinous crime she has committed in ignorance, the Duke has
come in person to behead her.
"Hear then, by the Duke's will," cries the messenger. "One of Satan's
night-demons, which do torment us, h as been captured and lies penned
in the Duke's hall. At sunrise tomorrow, this thing will be taken to that
sacred spot where grows the bush of the Flower of the Fire, and here its
foul blood shall be shed. Who then can doubt the bush will blossom, and
save us all, by the Grace of God."
"And the Angel of Death," intones the priest, on no account to be
omitted, "shall surely-"
"Wait," says the Duke. He is as white as Rohise. "Who is this?" he
asks. "Is it a ghost?" 
T ANIT!-1 LEE ? 299
The court stare at Rohise, who nearly sinks in dread, her scrubbing rag
in her hand.
Gradually, despite the rag, the rags, the rough hands, the court too
begins to see.
"Why, it is a marvel."
The Duke moves forward. He looks down at Rohise and starts to cry.
Rohise thinks he weeps in compassion at the awful sentence he is here to
visit on her, and drops back on her knees.
"No, no," says the Duke tenderly. "Get up. Rise. You are so like my
child, my daughter-"
Then Rohise, who knows few prayers, begins in panic to sing her little
song as an onson:
"Oh {leur de feu
"Pour ma souffrance-"
"Ah!" says the Duke. "Where did you learn that song?"
"From my mother," says Rohise. And, all instinct now, she smgs
agam:
"0 flurda fur,
"Pourma souffrance
"Ned orney par
"May say day mwar-"
It is the song of the fire-flower bush, the Nona Mordica, called BiteMe-Not. It begins, and continues: Oh flower of fire, For my misery's sake,
Do not sleep but aid me; wake! The Duke's daughter sang it very often.
In those days the shrub was not needed, being just a rarity of the castle.
Invoked as an amulet, on a mountain road, the rhyme itself had besides
proved useless.
The Duke takes the dirty scarf from Rohise's hair. She is very, very like
his lost daughter, the same pale smooth oval face, the long white neck
and long dark polished eyes, and the long dark hair. (Or is it that she is
very, very like the painting?)
The Duke gives instructions and Rohise is borne away.
In a beautiful chamber, the door of which has for seventeen years
been locked, Rohise is bathed and her hair is washed. Oils and scents
are rubbed into her skin. She is dressed in a gown of palest most pastel
rose, with a girdle sewn with pf:arls. Her hair is combed, and on it is
set a chaplet of stars and little golden leaves. "Oh, your poor hands,"
say the maids, as they trim her nails. Rohise has realized she is not to
be executed. She has realized the Duke has seen her and wants to love
her like his dead daughter. Slowly, an uneasy stir of something, not
quite happiness, moves through Rohise. Now she will wear her pink
gown, now she will sympathize with and console the Duke. Her daze
lifts suddenly.
The dream has come true. She dreamed of it so often it seems quite
normal. The scullery was the thing which never seemed real. 
300
>,) ,-:(
1 )\l T \,_.. BITE-ME-NOT OR, FLEUR DE FEU
She glides down through the castle and the ladies are astonished by
her grace. The carriage of her head under the starry coronet is exquisite .
Her voice is quiet and clear and musical, and the foreign tone of her
mother, long unremembered, is quite gone from it. Only the roughened
hands give her away, but smoothed by unguents, soon they will be soft
and white.
"Can it be she is truly the princess returned to flesh?"
"Her life was taken so early-yes, as they believe in the Spice-Lands,
by some holy dispensation, she might return."
"She would be about the age to have been conceived the very night the
Duke's daughter d- That is, the very night the bane began-"
Theosophical discussion ensues. Songs are composed.
Rohise sits for a while with her adoptive father in the East Turret, and
he tells her about the books and swords and lutes and scrolls, but not
about the two portraits. Then they walk out together, in the lovely garden
in the sunlight. They sit under a peach tree, and discuss many things, or
the Duke discusses them. That Rohise is ignorant and uneducated does
not matter at this point. She can always be trained. She has the basic
requirements: docility, sweetness. There are many royal maidens in many
places who know as little as she.
The Duke falls asleep under the peach tree. Rohise listens to the lovesongs her own ( her very own) courtiers bring her.
When the monster in the cage is mentioned, she nods as if she knows
what they mean. She supposes it is something hideous, a scaring treat to
be shown at dinner time, when the sun has gone down.
When the sun moves towards the western line of mountains just visible
over the high walls, the court streams into the castle and all the doors
are bolted and barred. There is an eagerness tonight in the concourse.
As the light dies out behind the colored windows that have no red in
them, covers and screens are dragged away from a bronze cage. It is
wheeled out into the center of the great hall.
Cannons begin almost at once to blast and bang from the roof holes.
The cannoneers have had strict instructions to keep up the barrage all
night without a second's pause.
Drums pound in the hall. The dogs start to bark. Rohise is not surprised
by the noise, for she has often heard it from far up, in her attic, like a
sea-wave breaking over and over through the lower house.
She looks at the cage cautiously, wondering what she will see. But she
sees only a heap of blackness like ravens, and then a tawny dazzle, torchlight on something like human skin. "You must not go down to look,"
says the Duke protectively, as his court pours about the cage. Someone
pokes between the bars with a gemmed cane, trying to rouse the nightmare
which lies quiescent there. But Rohise must be spared this.
So the Duke calls his actors, and a slight, pretty play is put on throughout dinner, before the dais, shutting off from the sight of Rohise the 
TANITH LEE ? 301
rest of the hall, where the barbaric gloating and goading of the court,
unchecked, increases.
The Prince Feroluce becomes aware between one second and the next. It
is the sound-heard beyond all others-of the wings of his people beating
at the stones of the castle. It is the wings which speak to him, more than
their wild orchestral voices. Besides these sensations, the anguish of healing and the sadism of humankind are not much.
Feroluce opens his eyes. His human audience, pleased, but afraid and
squeamish, backs away, and asks each other for the two thousandth time
if the cage is quite secure. In the torchlight the eyes of Feroluce are more
black than red. He stares about. He is, though captive, imperious. If he
were a lion or a bull, they would admire this 'nobility.' But the fact is,
he is too much like a man, which serves to point up his supernatural
differences unbearably.
Obviously, Feroluce understands the gist of his plight. Enemies have
him penned. He is a show for now, but ultimately to be killed, for with
the intuition of the raptor he divines everything. He had thought the
sunlight would kill him, but that is a distant matter, now. And beyond
all, the voices and the voices of the wings of his kindred beat the air
outside this room-caved mountain of stone.
And so, Feroluce commences to sing, or at least, this is how it seems
to the rabid court and all the people gathered in the hall. It seems he
sings. It is the great communing call of his kind, the art and science and
religion of the winged vampires, his means of telling them, or attempting
to tell them, what they must be told before he dies. So the sire of Feroluce
sang, and the grandsire, and each of his ancestors. Generally they died in
flight, falling angels spun down the gulches and enormous stairs of distant
peaks, singing. Feroluce, immured, believes that his cry is somehow
audible.
To the crowd in the Duke's hall the song is merely that, a song, but
how glorious. The clark silver voice, turning to bronze or gold, whitening in the higher registers. There seem to be words, but in some other
tongue. This is how the planets sing, surely, or mysterious creatures of
the sea.
Everyone is bemused. They listen, astonished.
No one now remonstrates with Rohise when she rises and steals down
from the dais. There is an enchantment which prevents movement and
coherent thought. Of all the roomful, only she is drawn forward. So she
comes close, unhindered, and between the bars of the cage, she sees the
vampire for the first time.
She has no notion what he can be. She imagined it was a monster or
a monstrous beast. But it is neither. Rohise, starved for so long of beauty
and always dreaming of it, recognizes Feroluce inevitably as part of the 
302 ?
?)9¥JI BITE-ME-NOT OR, FLEUR DE F EU
dream-come-true. She loves him instantly. Because she loves him, she is
not afraid of him.
She attends while he goes on and on with his glorious song. He does
not see her at all, or any of them. They are only things, like mist, or pain.
They have no character or personality or worth; abstracts.
Finally, Feroluce stops singing. Beyond the stone and the thick glass of
the siege, the wing-beats, too, eddy into silence.
Finding itself mesmerized, silent by night, the court comes to with a
terrible joint start, shrilling and shouting, bursting, exploding into a compensation of sound. Music flares again. And the cannons in the roof,
which have also fallen quiet, resume with a tremendous roar.
Feroluce shuts his eyes and seems to sleep. It is his preparation for
death.
Hands grasp Rohise. "Lady-step back, come away. So close! It may
harm you-"
The Duke clasps her in a father's embrace. Rohise, unused to this sort
of physical expression, is unmoved. She pats him absently.
"My lord, what will be done ?"
"Hush, child. Best you do not know."
Rohise persists.
The Duke persists in not saying.
But she remembers the words of the herald on the stair, and knows they
mean to butcher the winged man. She attends thereafter more carefully to
snatches of the bizarre talk about the hall, and learns all she needs. At
earliest sunrise, as soon as the enemy retreat from the walls, their captive
will be taken to the lovely garden with the peach trees. And so to the
sunken garden of the magic bush, the fire-flower. And there they will hang
him up in the sun through the dome of smoky glass, which will be slow
murder to him, but they will cut him, too, so his blood, the stolen blood
of the vampire, runs down to water the roots of the fleur de feu. And
who can doubt that, from such nourishment, the bush will bloom? The
blooms are salvation. Wherever they grow it is a safe place. Whoever
wears them is safe from the draining bite of demons. Bite-Me-Not, they
call it; vampire-repellent.
Rohise sits the rest of the night on her cushions, with folded hands,
resembling the portrait of the princess, which is not like her.
Eventually the sky outside alters. Silence comes down beyond the wall,
and so within the wall, and the court lifts its head, a corporate animal
scenting day.
At the intimation of sunrise the black plague has lifted and gone away,
and might never have been. The Duke, and almost all his castle full of
men, women, children, emerge from the doors. The sky is measureless
and bluely grey, with one cherry rift in the east that the court refers to
as "mauve," since dawns and sunsets are never any sort of red here. 
T ANJTH LEE ? 303
They move through the dimly lightening garden as the last stars melt.
The cage is dragged in their midst.
They are too tired, too concentrated now, the Duke's people, to continue baiting their captive. They have had all the long night to do that,
and to drink and opine, and now their stamina is sharpened for the
final act.
Reaching the sunken garden, the Duke unlocks the iron door. There is
no room for everyone within, so mostly they must stand outside, crammed
in the gate, or teetering on erect[ons of benches that have been placed
around, and peering in over the walls through the glass of the dome. The
places in the doorway are the best, of course; no one else will get so good
a view. The servants and lower persons must stand back under the trees
and only imagine what goes on. But they are used to that.
Into the sunken garden itself there are allowed to go the alchemist and
the apothecary, and the priest, ar?d certain sturdy soldiers attendant on
the Duke, and the Duke. And Feroluce in the cage.
The east is all 'mauve' now. The alchemist has prepared sorcerous safeguards which are being put into operation, and the priest, never to be left
out, intones prayers. The bulge-thewed soldiers open the cage and seize
the monster before it can stir. But drugged smoke has already been wafted
into the prison, and besides, the monster has prepared itself for hopeless
death and makes no demur.
Feroluce hangs in the arms of his loathing guards, dimly aware the sun
is near. But death is nearer, and already one may hear the alchemist's
apprentice sharpening the knife an ultimate time.
The leaves of the Nona Mordica are trembling, too, at the commencement of the light, and beginning to unfurl. Although this happens every
dawn, the court points to it with optimistic cries. Rohise, who has claimed
a position in the doorway, watches it too, but only for an instant. Though
she has sung of the flue de fur since childhood, she had never known
what the song was all about. And in just this way, though she has dreamed
of being the Duke's daughter most of her life, such an event was never
really comprehended either, and so means very little.
As the guards haul the demon forward to the plot of humid earth where
the bush is growing, Rohise darts into the sunken garden, and lightning
leaps in her hands. Women scream and well they might. Rohise has stolen
one of the swords from the East Turret, and now she flourishes it, and
now she has swung it and a soldier falls, bleeding red, red, red, before
them all.
Chaos enters, as in yesterday's play, shaking its tattered sleeves. The
men who hold the demon rear back in horror at the dashing blade and
the blasphemous gore, and the mad girl in her princess's gown. The Duke
makes a pitiful bleating noise, but no one pays him any attention.
The east glows in and like the liquid on the ground.
Meanwhile, the ironically combined sense of impending day and spilled 
304 >,)l ?0
',)1 B I TF -MF- N cn oR, FLFUR DE FEu
hot blood have penetrated the stunned brain of the vampire. His eyes
open and he sees the girl wielding her sword in a spray of crimson as the
last guard l ets go. Then the girl has run to Feroluce. Though, or because,
her face is insane, it communicates her purpose, as she thrusts the sword's
hilt into his hands.
No one has dared approach either the demon or the girl. Now they
look on in horror and in horror grasp what Feroluce has grasped.
In that moment the vampire springs, and the great swanlike wings are
reborn at his back, healed and whole. As the doctors predicted, he has
mended perfectly, and prodigiously fast. He takes to the air like an arrow,
unhindered, as if gravity docs not any more exist. As he does so, the girl
grips him about the waist, and slender and light, she is drawn upward
too. He docs not glance at her. He veers towards the gateway, and tears
through it, the sword, his talons, his wings, his very shadow beating men
and bricks from his path.
And now he is in the sky above them, a black star which has not been
put out. They see the wings flare and beat, and the swirling of a girl's
dress and unbound hair, and then the image dives and is gone into the
shade under the mountains, as the sun rises.
It is fortunate, the mountain shade in the sunrise. Lion's blood and enforced quiescence have worked wonders, but the sun could undo it all.
Luckily the shadow, deep and cold as a pool, envelops the vampire, and
in it there is a cave, deeper and colder. Here he alights and sinks down,
sloughing the girl, whom he has almost forgotten. Certainly he fears no
harm from her. She is like a pet animal, maybe, like the hunting dogs or
wolves or lammergeyers that occasionally the unkindness of vampires have
kept by them for a while. That she helped him is all he needs to know.
She will help again. So when, stumbling in the blackness, she brings him
in her cupped hands water from a cascade at the poolcave's back, he is
not surprised. He drinks the water, which is the only other substance his
kind imbibe. Then he smooths her hair, absently, as he would pat or
stroke the pet she seems to have become. He is not grateful, as he is not
suspicious. The complexities of his intellect are reserved for other things.
Since he is exhausted he falls asleep, and since Rohise is exhausted she
falls asleep beside him, pressed to his warmth in the freezing dark. Like
those of Feroluce, as it turns out, her thoughts are simple. She is sorry
for distressing the Cursed Duke. But she has no regrets, for she could no
more have left Feroluce to die than she could have refused to leave the
scullery for the court.
The day, which had only just begun, passes swiftly in sleep.
Feroluce wakes as the sun sets, without seeing anything of it. He unfolds
himself and goes to the cave's entrance, which now looks out on a whole
sky of stars above a landscape of mountains. The castle is far below, and 
T ANITH LEE ? 305
to the eyes of Rohise as she follows him, invisible. She does not even look
for it, for there is something else to be seen.
The great dark shapes of angels are wheeling against the peaks, the
stars. And their song begins, up in the starlit spaces. It is a lament, their
mourning, pitiless and strong, for Feroluce, who has died in the stone
heart of the thing they prey upon ..
The tribe of Feroluce do not laugh, but, like a bird or wild beast, they
have a kind of equivalent to laughter. This Feroluce now utters, and like
a flung lance he launches himself into the air.
Rohise at the cave mouth, abandoned, forgotten, unnoted even by the
mass of vampires, watches the winged man as he flies towards his people.
She supposes for a moment that she may be able to climb down the
tortuous ways of the mountain, undetected. Where then should she go?
She does not spend much time on these ideas. They do not interest or
involve her. She watches Feroluce and, because she learned long ago the
uselessness of weeping, she does not shed tears, though her heart begins
to break.
As Feroluce glides, body held motionless, wings outspread on a downdraft, into the midst of the storm of black wings, the red stars of eyes
ignite all about him. The great lament dies. The air is very still.
Feroluce waits then. He waits, for the aura of his people is not as he
has always known it. It is as if he had come among emptiness. From the
silence, therefore, and from nothing else, he learns it all. In the stone he
lay and he sang of his death, as the Prince must, dying. And the ritual
was completed, and now there is the threnody, the grief, and thereafter
the choosing of a new Prince. And none of this is alterable. He is dead.
Dead. It cannot and will not be changed.
There is a moment of protest, then, from Feroluce. Perhaps his brief
sojourn among men has taught him some of their futility. But as the cry
leaves him, all about the huge wings are raised like swords. Talons and
teeth and eyes burn against the stars. To protest is to be torn in shreds.
He is not of their people now. They can attack and slaughter him as they
would any other intruding thing .. Go, the talons and the teeth and the
eyes say to him. Go far off.
He is, dead. There is nothing left him but to die.
Feroluce retreats. He soars. Bewildered, he feels the power and energy
of his strength and the joy of flight, and cannot understand how this is,
if he is dead. Yet he is dead. He knows it now.
So he closes his eyelids, and his wings. Spear swift he falls. And something shrieks, interrupting the reverie of nihilism. Disturbed, he opens his
wings, shudders, turns like a swimmer, finds a ledge against his side and
two hands outstretched, holding him by one shoulder, and by his hair.
"No," says Rohise. (The vampire cloud, wheeling away, have not heard
her; she does not think of them .. ) His eyes stay shut. Holding him, she
kisses these eyelids, his forehead,, his lips, gently, as she drives her nails 
306 ?
?)9¥JI BITE-ME-NOT OR, FLEUR DE FEU
into his skin to hold him. The black wings beat, tearing to be free and
fall and die. "No," say Rohise. "I love you," she says. "My life is your
life." These are the words of the court and of courtly love songs. No
matter, she means them. And though he cannot understand her language
or her sentiments, yet her passion, purely that, communicates itself, strong
and burning as the passions of his kind, who generally love only one
thing, which is scarlet. For a second her intensity fills the void which now
contains him. But then he dashes himself away from the ledge, to fall
again, to seek death again.
Like a ribbon, clinging to him still, Rohise is drawn from the rock and
falls with him.
Afraid, she buries her head against his breast, in the shadow of wings
and hair. She no longer asks him to reconsider. This is how it must be.
Love she thinks again, in the instant before they strike the earth. Then
that instant comes, and is gone.
Astonished, she finds herself still alive, still in the air. Touching so close
feathers have been left on the rocks, Feroluce has swerved away, and
upward. Now, conversely, they are whirling towards the very stars. The
world seems miles below. Perhaps they will fly into space itself. Perhaps
he means to break their bones instead on the cold face of the moon.
He does not attempt to dislodge her, he does not attempt any more to
fall and die. But as he flies, he suddenly cries out, terrible lost lunatic cries.
They do not hit the moon. They do not pass through the stars like
static rain.
But when the air grows thin and pure there is a peak like a dagger
standing in their path. Here, he alights. As Rohise lets go of him, he turns
away. He stations himself, sentry-fashion, in the manner of his tribe, at
the edge of the pinnacle. But watching for nothing. He has not been able
to choose death. His strength and the strong will of another, these have
hampered him. His brain has become formless darkness. His eyes glare,
seeing nothing.
Rohise, gasping a little in the thin atmosphere, sits at his back, watching
for him, in case any harm may come near him.
At last, harm does come. There is a lightening in the east. The frozen,
choppy sea of the mountains below and all about, grows visible. It is a
marvelous sight, but holds no marvel for Rohise. She averts her eyes from
the exquisitely penciled shapes, looking thin and translucent as paper, the
rivers of mist between, the glimmer of nacreous ice. She searches for a
blind hole to hide in.
There is a pale yellow wound in the sky when she returns. She grasps
Feroluce by the wrist and tugs at him. "Come," she says. He looks at her
vaguely, as if seeing her from the shore of another country. "The sun,"
she says. "Quickly."
The edge of the light runs along his body like a razor. He moves by
instinct now, following her down the slippery dagger of the peak, and so 
TANITH LEE ? 307
eventually into a shallow cave. It is so small it holds him like a coffin.
Rohise closes the entrance with her own body. It is the best she can do.
She sits facing the sun as it rises., as if prepared to fight. She hates the
sun for his sake. Even as the light warms her chilled body, she curses it.
Till light and cold and breathlessness fade together.
When she wakes, she looks up into twilight and endless stars, two of
which are red. She is lying on the rock by the cave. Feroluce leans over
her, and behind Feroluce his quiescent wings fill the sky.
She has never properly understood his nature: Vampire. Yet her own
nature, which tells her so much, tells her some vital part of herself is
needful to him, and that he is danger, and death. But she loves him, and
is not afraid. She would have fallen to die with him. To help him by her
death does not seem wrong to her. Thus, she lies still, and smiles at him
to reassure him she will not struggle. From lassitude, not fear, she closes
her eyes. Presently she feels the soft weight of hair brush by her cheek,
and then his cool mouth rests against her throat. But nothing more happens. For some while, they continue in this fashion, she yielding, he kneeling over her, his lips on her skin. Then he moves a little away. He sits,
regarding her. She, knowing the unknown act has not been completed,
sits up in turn. She beckons to him mutely, telling him with her gestures
and her expression I consent. Whatever is necessary. But he does not stir.
His eyes blaze, but even of these she has no fear. In the end he looks
away from her, out across the spaces of the darkness.
He himself does not understand. It is permissible to drink from the
body of a pet, the wolf, the eagle. Even to kill the pet, if need demands.
Can it be, outlawed from his people, he has lost their composite soul?
Therefore, is he soulless now? It does not seem to him he is. Weakened
and famished though he is, the vampire is aware of a wild tingling of life.
When he stares at the creature which is his food, he finds he sees her
differently. He has borne her through the sky, he has avoided death, by
some intuitive process, for her sake, and she has led him to safety, guarded
him from the blade of the sun. In the beginning it was she who rescued
him from the human things which had taken him. She cannot be human,
then. Not pet, and not prey. For no, he could not drain her of blood, as
he would not seize upon his own kind, even in combat, to drink and feed.
He starts to see her as beautiful, not in the way a man beholds a woman,
certainly, but as his kind revere the sheen of water in dusk, or flight, or
song. There are no words for this. But the life goes on tingling through
him. Though he is dead, life.
In the end, the moon does rise, and across the open face of it something
wheels by. Feroluce is less swift than was his wont, yet he starts in pursuit,
and catches and brings down, killing on the wing, a great night bird.
Turning in the air, Feroluce absorbs its liquors. The heat of life now, as
well as its assertion, courses through him. He returns to the rock perch,
the glorious flaccid bird dangling from his hand. Carefully, he tears the 
308 ?1?·
1rz BITE-ME-NOT OR, FLEUR DE FEU
glory of the bird in pieces, plucks the feathers, splits the bones. He wakes
the companion (asleep again from weakness) who is not pet or prey, and
feeds her morsels of flesh. At first she is unwilling. But her hunger is so
enormous and her nature so untamed that quite soon she accepts the
slivers of raw fowl.
Strengthened by blood, Feroluce lifts Rohise and bears her gliding down
the moon-slit quill-backed land of the mountains, until there is a rocky
cistern full of cold, old rains. Here they drink together. Pale white primroses grow in the fissures where the black moss drips. Rohise makes a
garland and throws it about the head of her beloved when he does not
expect it. Bewildered but disdainful, he touches at the wreath of primroses
to see if it is likely to threaten or hamper him. When it does not, he
leaves it in place.
Long before dawn this time, they have found a crevice. Because it is so
cold, he folds his wings about her. She speaks of her love to him, but he
does not hear, only the murmur of her voice, which is musical and does
not displease him. And later, she sings him sleepily the little song of the
fleur de fur.
There comes a time then, brief, undated, chartless time, when they are
together, these two creatures. Not together in any accepted sense, of
course, but together in the strange feeling or emotion, instinct or ritual,
that can burst to life in an instant or flow to life gradually across half a
century, and which men call Love.
They are not alike. No, not at all. Their differences are legion and
should be unpalatable. He is a supernatural thing and she a human thing,
he was a lord and she a scullery sloven. He can fly, she cannot fly. And
he is male, she female. What other items are required to make them
enemies? Yet they are bound, not merely by love, they are bound by all
they are, the very stumbling blocks. Bound, too, because they are doomed.
Because the stumbling blocks have doomed them; everything has. Each
has been exiled out of their own kind. Together, they cannot even communicate with each other, save by looks, touches, sometimes by sounds, and
by songs neither understands, but which each comes to value since the
other appears to value them, and since they give expression to that other.
Nevertheless, the binding of the doom, the greatest binding, grows, as it
holds them fast to each other, mightier and stronger.
Although they do not know it, or not fully, it is the awareness of doom
that keeps them there, among the platforms and steps up and down, and
the inner cups, of the mountains.
Here it is possible to pursue the airborne hunt, and Feroluce may now
and then bring down a bird to sustain them both. But birds are scarce.
The richer lower slopes, pastured with goats, wild sheep and men-they
lie far off and far down from this place as a deep of the sea. And Feroluce 
TANITH LEE ? 3 0 9
does not conduct her there, nor does Rohise ask that he should, or try to
lead the way, or even dream of such a plan.
But yes, birds are scarce, and the pastures far away, and winter is
coming. There are only two seasons in these mountains. High summer,
which dies, and the high cold which already treads over the tips of the
air and the rock, numbing the sky, making all brittle, as though the whole
landscape might snap in pieces, shatter.
How beautiful it is to wake with the dusk, when the silver webs of
night begin to form, frost and ice, on everything. Even the ragged dress-­
once that of a princess-is tinseled and shining with this magic substance,
even the mighty wings-once those of a prince-each feather is drawn
glittering with thin rime. And oh, the sky, thick as a daisy-field with the
white stars. Up there, when they have fed and have strength, they fly, or,
Feroluce flies and Rohise flies in his arms, carried by his wings. Up there
in the biting chill like a pane of ghostly vitreous, they have become lovers,
true blind lovers, embraced and linked, their bodies a bow, coupling on
the wing. By the hour that this first happened the girl had forgotten all
she had been, and he had forgotten too that she was anything but the
essential mate. Sometimes, borne in this way, by wings and by fire, she
cries out as she hangs in the ether. These sounds, transmitted through the
flawless silence and amplification of the peaks, scatter over tiny half-buried
villages countless miles away, where they are heard in fright and taken
for the shrieks of malign invisible devils, tiny as bats, and armed with the
barbed stings of scorpions. There are always misunderstandings.
After a while, the icy prologues and the stunning starry fields of winter
nights give way to the main argument of winter.
The liquid of the pool, where the flowers made garlands, has clouded
and closed to stone. Even the volatile waterfalls are stilled, broken cascades of glass. The wind tears through the skin and hair to gnaw the
bones. To weep with cold earns no compassion of the cold.
There is no means to make fire. Besides, the one who was Rohise is an
animal now, or a bird, and beasts and birds do not make fire, save for
the phoenix in the Duke's bestiary. Also, the sun is fire, and the sun is a
foe. Eschew fire.
There begin the calendar months of hibernation. The demon lovers too
must prepare for just such a measureless winter sleep, that gives no hunger, asks no action. There is a deep cave they have lined with feathers
and withered grass. But there are no more flying things to feed them.
Long, long ago, the last warm frugal feast, long, long ago the last flight,
joining, ecstasy and song. So, they turn to their cave, to stasis, to sleep.
Which each understands, wordlessly, thoughtlessly, is death.
What else? He might drain her of blood, he could persist some while
on that, might even escape the mountains, the doom. Or she herself might
leave him, attempt to make her way to the places below, and perhaps she
could reach them, even now. Others, lost here, have done so. But neither 
310 ?
?).!)¥-Ji BITE-ME-NOT OR, FLEUR DE FEU
considers these alternatives. The moment for all that is past. Even the
death-lament does not need to be voiced again.
Installed, they curl together in their bloodless, icy nest, murmuring a
little to each other, but finally still.
Outside, the snow begins to come down. It falls like a curtain. Then
the winds take it. Then the night is full of the lashing of whips, and when
the sun rises it is white as the snow itself, its flames very distant, giving
nothing. The cave mouth is blocked up with snow. In the winter, it seems
possible that never again will there be a summer in the world.
Behind the modest door of snow, hidden and secret, sleep is quiet as
stars, dense as hardening resin. Feroluce and Rohise turn pure and pale
in the amber, in the frigid nest, and the great wings lie like a curious
articulated machinery that will not move. And the withered grass and the
flowers are crystallized, until the snows shall melt.
At length, the sun deigns to come closer to the earth, and the miracle
occurs. The snow shifts, crumbles, crashes off the mountains in rage. The
waters hurry after the snow, the air is wrung and racked by splittings and
splinterings, by rushes and booms. It is half a year, or it might be a
hundred years, later.
Open now, the entry to the cave. Nothing emerges. Then, a flutter, a
whisper. Something does emerge. One black feather, and caught in it, the
petal of a flower, crumbling like dark charcoal and white, drifting away
into the voids below. Gone. Vanished. It might never have been.
But there comes another time ( half a year, a hundred years), when an
adventurous traveler comes down from the mountains to the pocketed
villages the other side of them. He is a swarthy cheerful fellow, you would
not take him for herbalist or mystic, but he has in a pot a plant he found
high up in the staring crags, which might after all contain anything or
nothing. And he shows the plant, which is an unusual one, having slender,
dark and velvety leaves, and giving off a pleasant smell like vanilla. "See,
the Nona Mordica, " he says. "The Bite-Me-Not. The flower that repels
vampires."
Then the villagers tell him an odd story, about a castle in another
country, besieged by a huge flock, a menace of winged vampires, and how
the Duke waited in vain for the magic bush that was in his garden, the
Bite-Me-Not, to flower and save them all. But it seems there was a curse
on this Duke, who on the very night his daughter was lost, had raped a
serving woman, as he had raped others before. But this woman conceived.
And bearing the fruit, or flower, of this rape, damaged her, so she lived
only a year or two after it. The child grew up unknowing, and in the end
betrayed her own father by running away to the vampires, leaving the
Duke demoralized. And soon after he went mad, and himself stole out
one night, and let the winged fiends into his castle, so all there perished.
"Now if only the bush had flowered in time, as your bush flowers, all
would have been well," the villagers cry. 
T ANITH LEE J9 :2 311
The traveler smiles. He in turn does not tell them of the heap of peculiar
bones, like parts of eagles mingled with those of a woman and a man.
Out of the bones, from the heart of them, the bush was rising, but the
traveler untangled the roots of it with care; it looks sound enough now
in its sturdy pot, all of it twining together. It seems as if two separate
plants are growing from a single stem, one with blooms almost black,
and one pink-flowered, like a young sunset.
"Flur de fur," says the traveler, beaming at the marvel, and his luck.
Fleur de feu. Oh flower of fire. That fire is not hate or fear, which
makes flowers come, not terror or anger or lust, it is love that is the fire
of the Bite-Me-Not, love which cannot abandon, love which cannot harm.
Love which never dies. 
This page intentionally left blank 
··?······v········
THE COMIC
VAMPIRE
D
espite the link between horror and humor (they both depend upon
distortion and excess), comparatively little vampire comedy has
been written. While satirists and stand-up comedians are perfectly
comfortable poking fun at every aspect of human existence, blood may
be a problem. Blood, as has been pointed out, is a substance singularly
laden with meaning-most of it of a very serious sort. And there arc only
a certain number of clever remarks that can be made about it.
The film industry, though, has had quite a bit of fun with vampires.
Abbott and Costello have met Dracula to good effect in Abbott and Costello Me.et Frankenstein (1948). John Carradine in Billy the Kid versus
Dracula ( 1 966) enhances the film's campiness so that it becomes sheer
comedy. Then there is Love at First Bite (1979), in which Susan St. James
and George Hamilton play with the big 1 970s questions of commitment
and recreational sex. And in The l'earless Vampire Killer ( 1 967), a chaste
chambermaid finds her crucifix powerless against the Jewish vampire that
has come to ravish her.
In print, humorous vampires mostly lend themselves to short pieces with
funny punch lines and trick endings, as in the stories collected here. Nonetheless, some brave authors have attempted to explore the lighter side of undeath at novel length. Tabitha fffoulkes by John Linssen ( 1 978) is a genuine
romantic comedy about the rocky relationship between a modern young
woman and her vampiric suitor. The Goldcamp Vampire, or The Sanguinary Sourdough by Elizabeth Ann Scarborough ( 1 987), is a light-hearted
romp set in Jack London's Yukon. Suckers, by Anne Billson ( 1 993 ), is something considerably nastier, a biting black comedy set in Thatcherite London.
Suckers contains one of the most audacious and perversely amusing end-ofchapter cliffhangers ever conceived: when the heroine goes undercover at a
vampires-only pub, her menstrual period suddenly begins.
The definitive vampire comedy has probably yet to be written, but the
stories selected here, including the Dracula story by filmmaker Woody
Allen, do reveal untapped veins of humor in the conventions of traditional
vampire fiction. 
FREDERIC BROWN
(1906-1972)
Born in Cincinnati, Ohio, Frederic Brown attended the University of Cincinnati and Hanover College in Indiana. He was a detective story and
science fiction writer, and a working journalist for the Milwaukee Journal
for many years.
Brown is perhaps most famous for his detectiue novels, especially The
Fabulous Clipjoint (1 947), but his science fiction stories are well loved
for their humor and elegance. His most well-known science fiction novel,
What Mad Universe (1 949), is a complex alternate-worlds story. Brown
was also attracted to humor writing, making many of his shorter works
essentially extended jokes. His collection entitled Nightmares and Geezenstacks (1 961) merged with another, Honeymoon in Hell (1 958), into an
omnibus edition, entitled And the Gods Laughed (1 987). Brown's other
science fiction works include The Lights in the Sky are Stars (1 953) and
Martians Go Home (1 955).
Many of his previously uncollected stories have recently been published,
including "Homicide Sanitarium" (1 984), "Before She Kills" (1 984), "The
Freak Show Murders" (1 985), "Thirty Corpses Every Thursday" (1 986),
"Who Was that Blonde I Saw You Kill Last Night?" (1 988), "The WaterWalker" (1 990), and "The Pickled Punks" (1 991).
The story that follows is typical of Brown's specialty, which is the
tiny, explosive joke. So as not to risk spoiling the joke, no annotation or
commentary is offered here. Still, readers may want to keep in mind what
it is that you can't get from a turnip. 
'
ln their time machine, Vron and Dreena, last two survivors of
the race of vampires, fled into the future to escape annihilation. They held
hands and consoled one another in their terror and their hunger.
In the twenty-second century mankind had found them out, had discovered that the legend of vampires living secretly among humans was not a
legend at all, but fact. There had been a pogrom that had found and
killed every vampire but these two, who had already been working on a
time machine and who had finished in time to escape in it. Into the future,
far enough into the future that the very word vampire would be forgotten
so they could again live unsuspected-and from their loins regenerate
their race.
"I'm hungry, Vron. Awfully hungry."
"I too, Dreena dear. We'll stop again soon."
They had stopped four times already and had narrowly escaped dying
each time. They had not been forgotten. The last stop, half a million years
back, had shown them a world gone to the dogs-quite literally: human
beings were extinct and dogs had become civilized and man-like. Still they
had been recognized for what they were. They'd managed to feed once,
on the blood of a tender young bitch, but then they'd been hounded back
to their time machine and into flight again.
"Thanks for stopping," Dreena said. She sighed.
"Don't thank me," said Vron grimly. "This is the end of the line. We're
out of fuel and we'll find none here-by now all radioactives will have
turned to lead. We live here ... or else."
They went out to scout. "Look," said Dreena excitedly, pointing to
something walking toward them. "A new creature! The dogs are gone
and something else has taken over. And surely we're forgotten."
The approaching creature was telepathic. "I have heard your thoughts,"
said a voice inside their brains. ''·You wonder whether we know 'vampires,' whatever they are. We do not."
Dreena clutched Vron's arm in ecstasy. "Freedom!" she murmured hungrily. "And food!"
"You also wonder," said the voice, "about my origin and evolution.
All life today is vegetable. 1-" He bowed low to them. "1, a member of
the dominant race, was once whalt you called a turnip." 
CHARLES BEAUMONT
(1929-1967)
Chicago-born Charles Nutt was self-educated after his second year of high
school. He wrote under several pseudonyms, including Charles Beaumont,
Keith Grantland, C. B. Lovehill, and S. M. Tenneshaw. It was as Beaumont, under which he wrote "Blood Brother" and most of his science
fiction, that he was best known.
Nutt began publishing his brand of horror mixed with science fiction
with "The Devil, You Say?" for Amazing Stories in 1 951. He published
many short story collections, including The Hunger (1 957), Yonder
(1958), Night Ride and Other Journeys (1 960), The Magic Man (1 965),
and The Edge (1 966). His work combines humor with horror in a very
effective style that downplays the grimness of the subject matter. He also
worked as a writer for genre movies, among them Queen of Outer Space
(1 958), The Premature Burial (1 962), The Wonderful World of the Brothers Grimm (1 962), The Haunted Palace (1 963), The Seven Faces of Dr.
Lao (1 964), and The Masque of the Red Death (1 964). Several of these
films were directed by the famous director Roger Corman, well known
for his horror and science fiction genre movies. Nutt also wrote numerous
scripts for television, including some work for The Twilight Zone.
"Blood Brother, " like satire generally, succeeds because it takes its target seriously. Nutt examines vampire lore with a pragmatic eye, showing
us that a twentieth-century urban vampire has almost unsolvable problems. The joke, as the story's ending reveals, is that there are people out
there who can solve these problems rather simply. 
BLOOD BROTHER
? '' Now then," said the psychiatrist, looking up from his note
pad, "when did you first discover that you were dead?"
"Not dead," said the pale man in the dark suit. "Undead."
"I'm sorry."
"Just try to keep it straight. If I were dead, I'd be in great shape. That's
the trouble, though. I can't die."
"Why not?"
"Because I'm not alive."
"I see." The psychiatrist made a rapid notation. "Now, Mr. Smith, I'd
like you to start at the beginning, and tell me the whole story."
The pale man shook his head. "At twenty-five dollars an hour," he
said, "are you kidding? I can barely afford to have my cape cleaned once
a month."
"I've been meaning to ask you about that. Why do you wear it?"
"You ever hear of a vampire without a cape? It's part of the whole
schmear, that's all. I don't know why!"
"Calm yourself."
"Calm yourself! I wish I could. I tell you, Doctor, I'm going right
straight out of my skull. Look at this!" The man who called himself Smith
put out his hands. They were a tremblous blur of white. "And look at
this!" He pulled down the flaps b<eneath his eyes, revealing an intricate
red lacework of veins. "Believe me," he said, flinging himself upon the
couch, "another few days of this and I'll be ready for the funny farm!"
The psychiatrist picked a mahogany letter opener off his desk and
tapped his palm. "I would appreciate it," he said, "if you would make
an effort to avoid those particular terms."
"All right," said the pale man. "But you try living on blood for a year,
and see how polite you are. I mean-"
"The beginning, Mr. Smith."
"Well, I met this girl, Dorcas, and she bit me."
"Yes?"
"That's all. It doesn't take much., you know."
The psychiatrist removed his glasses and rubbed his eyes. "As I under··
stand it," he said, "you think you're a vampire."
"No," said Smith. "I think I'm a human being, but I am a vampire ..
That's the hell of it. I can't seem to adjust."
"How do you mean?"
"Well, the hours for instance. I used to have very regular habits. Work
from nine to five, home, a little TV, maybe, into bed by ten, up at six-
318 ?
?)?I BLOOD BROTHER
thirty. Now-" He shook his head violently from side to side. "You know
how it is with vampires."
"Let's pretend I don't," said the psychiatrist, soothingly. "Tell me. How
is it?"
'
"Like I say, the hours. Everything's upside-down. That's why I made
this appointment with you so late. See, you're supposed to sleep during
the day and work at night. "
"Why?"
"Boy, you've got me. I asked Dorcas, that's the girl bit me, and she
said she'd try and find out, but nobody seems to be real sure about it."
"Dorcas," said the psychiatrist, pursing his lips. "That's an unusual name."
"Dorcas Schultz is an unusual girl, I'll tell you. A real nut. She's on
that late-late TV show, you know? The one that runs all those crummy
old horror movies?" Smith scraped a stain from his cloak with his fingernail. "Maybe you know her. She recommended you."
"It's possible. But let's get back to you. You were speaking of the hours."
Smith wrung his hands. "They're murdering me," he said. "Eight flyby-night jobs I've had-eight!-and lost every one!"
"Would you care to explain that?"
"Nothing to explain. I j ust can't stay awake, that's all. I mean, every
night-1 mean every day-I toss and turn for hours and then when I finally
do doze off, boom, it's nightfall and I've got to get out of the coffin."
"The coffin?"
"Yeah. That's another sweet wrinkle. The minute you go bat, you're
supposed to give up beds and take a casket. Which is not only sick, but
expensive as hell. " Smith shook his head angrily. "First you got to buy
the damn thing. Do you know the cost of the average casket?"
"Well-" began the psychiatrist.
"Astronomical! Completely out of proportion. I'm telling you, it's a
racket! For anything even halfway decent you're going to drop five bills,
easy. But that's just the initial outlay. Then there's the cartage and the
cleaning bills."
"I don't-"
"Seventy-five to a hundred every month, month in, month out."
"I'm afraid 1-"
"The grave dirt, man. Sacking out in a coffin isn't bad enough, no,
you've got to line it with soil from the family plot. I ask you, who's got
a family plot these days? Have you?"
"No but-"
"Ri?ht. So what do you do? You go out and buy one. Then you bring
home a couple pounds of dirt and spread it around in the coffin. Wake
up at night and you're covered with it." Smith clicked his tongue exasperatedly. "If you could just wear pajamas-but no, the rules say the full
bit. Ever hear of anything so crazy? You can't even take off your shoes,
for cry eye !" He began to pace. "Then there's the bloodstains." 
C HARLES BEAUMONT ? 319
The psychiatrist lowered his pad, replaced his glasses, and regarded his
patient with a not incurious eye.
"I must go through twenty white shirts a month," continued Smith.
"Even at two-fifty a shirt, that's a lot of dough. You're probably thinking,
Why isn't he more careful ? Well, listen, I try to be. But it isn't like eating
a bowl of tomato soup, you know." A shudder, or something like a
shudder, passed over the pale man. "That's another thing. The diet. I
mean, I always used to like my steaks rare, but this is ridiculous! Blood
for breakfast, blood for lunch, blood for dinner. Uch-j ust the thought
of it makes me queasy to the stomach!" Smith flung himself back onto
the couch and closed his eyes. "It's the monotony that gets you," he said,
"although there's plenty else to complain about. You know what I mean?"
"Well," said the psychiatrist, clearing his throat, "I-"
"Filthy stuff! And the routines I have to go through to get it! What if
you had to rob somebody every time you wanted a hamburger-! mean,
just supposing. That's the way it is with me. I tried stocking up on plasma,
but that's death warmed over. A few nights of it and you've got to go
after the real thing, it doesn't matter how many promises you've made
to yourself."
"The real thing?"
"I don't like to talk about it," said Smith, turning his head to the wall.
"I'm actually a very sensitive person, know what I mean? Gentle. Kind.
Never could stand violence, not even as a kid. Now ... "He sobbed
wrackingly, leaped to his feet, and resumed pacing. "Do you think I enjoy
biting people ? Do you think I don't know how disgusting it is? But, I tell
you, I can't help it! Every few nights I get this terrible urge . "
"Yes?"
"You'll hate me."
"No, Mr. Smith."
"Yes you will. Everybody does. Everybody hates a vampire.:' The pale
man withdrew a large silk handkerchief from his pocket and daubed at
sudden tears. "It isn't fair," he choked. "After all, we didn't ask to become
what we are, did we? Nobody ever thinks of that."
"You feel, then, that you are being persecuted?"
"Damn right," said Smith. "And you know why? I'll tell you why.
Because I am being persecuted. That's why. Have you ever heard a nice
thing said about a vampire? Ever in your whole life? No. Why? Because
people hate us. But I'll tell you something even sillier. They fear us, too!"
The pale man laughed a wild, mirthless laugh. "Us, " he said. "The most
helpless creatures on the face of the Earth! Why, it doesn't take anything
to knock us over. If we don't cut our throats trying to shave-you know
the mirror bit: no reflection-we stand a chance to land flat on our back
because the neighbor downstairs is cooking garlic. Or bring us a little
running water, see what happens. \lVe flip our lids. Or silver bullets. Daylight, for crying out loud. If I'm not back in that stupid coffin by dawn, 
320
)'') .. -:-(
I )\J 't
;_. B LOOD B ROTHER
zow, I'm out like a light. So I'm out late, and time sort of gets away from
me, and I look at my watch and I've got ten minutes. What do I do? Any
other vampire in his right mind, he changes into a bat and flies. Not me.
You know why?"
The psychiatrist shook his head.
"Because I can't stand the ugly things. They make me sick just to look at,
let alone be. And then there's all the hassle of taking off your clothes and
all. So I grab a cab and just pray there isn't any traffic. Boy. Or take these."
He smiled for the first time, revealing two large pointed incisors. "What do
you imagine happens to us when our choppers start to go? I've had this one
on the left filled it must be half a dozen times. The dentist says if I was
smart I'd have 'em all yanked out and a nice denture put in. Sure. Can't
you just see me trying to rip out somebody's throat with a pair of false
teeth ? Or take the routine with the wooden stake. It used to be that was
kind of a secret. Now with all these lousy movies, the whole world is in on
the gag. I ask you, Doctor, how are you supposed to be able to sleep when
you know that everybody in the block is just itching to find you so they can
drive a piece of wood into your heart? Huh? Man, you talk about sick!
Those people are in really bad shape!" He shuddered again. "I'll tell you
about the jazz with crosses, but frankly, even thinking about it makes me
jumpy. You know what? I have to walk three blocks out of my way to
avoid the church I used to go to every Sunday. But don't get the idea it's
just churches. No, it's anything. Cross your fingers and I'll start sweating.
Lay a fork over a knife and I'll probably jump right out the window. So
then what happens? I splatter myself all over the sidewalk, right? But do I
die? Oh, hell, no. Doc, listen! You've got to help me! If you don't, I'm going
to go off my gourd, I know it!"
The psychiatrist folded his note pad and smiled. "Mr. Smith," he said,
"you may be surprised to learn that yours is a relatively simple
problem ... with a relatively simple cure."
"Really?" asked the pale man.
"To be sure," said the psychiatrist. "Just lie down on the couch there.
That's it. Close your eyes. Relax. Good." The psychiatrist rose from his
chair and walked to his desk. "While it is true that this syndrome is
something of a rarity," he said, "I do not foresee any great difficulty."
He picked something off the top of the desk and returned. "It is primarily
a matter of adjustment and of right thinking. Are you quite relaxed?"
Smith said that he was.
"Good," said the psychiatrist. "Now we begin the cure." With which .
comment he raised his arm high in the air, held it there for a moment,
then plunged it down, burying the mahogany letter opener to its hilt in
Mr. Smith's heart.
Seconds later, he was dialing a telephone number.
"Is Dorcas there ?" he asked, idly scratching the two circular marks on
his neck. "Tell her it's her fiance." 
WooDY ALLEN
(b. 1935)
America's most creative, and often {unniest, filmmaker, Woody Allen, was
born Allen Stewart Konigsberg in Brooklyn, New York. He was educated
at New York University and at the City College of New York.
Allen began his career as a comedy writer and a stand-up comedian,
drawing most of his material from events or fantasies in his own life and
finding humor in his own insecurities. In his comedy routines and films,
Allen often depicts himself as the prototypical modern man, one living in
a perpetual state of anxiety, hexed by women, the certainty of death, and
the guilt-ridden vestiges of inherited religion. There is a direct line leading
from Y. L. Peretz's Yiddish sufferer, "Silent Bontsche, " through Charlie
Chaplin's Little Tramp to Woody Allen's endlessly beset schlimazel
(klutz), an endlessly baffled New York City Jew around whom the contemporary world whirls.
Allen's film triumphs, almost too numerous to list, include such favorites as Annie Hall (1 977), Manhattan (1 979), Broadway Danny Rose
(1 984), The Purple Rose of Cairo (1 985), and Mighty Aphrodite (1 995).
His written works include Getting Even (1 971), Without Feathers (1 975),
and The Complete Prose of Woody Allen (1 991).
That Allen turned his attention to Count Dracula should not surprise
us. Nor should it surprise us that Allen's Count Dracula has an uncanny
resemblance to the schlimazel Allen has made famous. In any case, here
we have the fruit of that excursion: The answer to the question of what
happens to a vampire whose sense of sunrise and sunset is discombobu ..
fated by a total eclipse of the sun. 
COUNT DRACULA
'
Somewhere in Transylvama, Dracula the monster lies sleeping
in his coffin, waiting for night to fall. As exposure to the sun's rays would
surely cause him to perish, he stays protected in the satin-lined chamber
bearing his family name in silver. Then the moment of darkness comes,
and through some miraculous instinct the fiend emerges from the safety of
his hiding place and, assuming the hideous forms of the bat or the wolf, he
prowls the countryside, drinking the blood of his victims. Finally, before the
first rays of his archenemy, the sun, announce a new day, he hurries back to
the safety of his hidden coffin and sleeps, as the cycle begins anew.
Now he starts to stir. The fluttering of his eyelids are a response to
some age-old, unexplainable instinct that the sun is nearly down and his
time is near. Tonight, he is particularly hungry and as he lies there, fully
awake now, in red-lined Inverness cape and tails, waiting to feel with
uncanny perception the precise moment of darkness before opening the
lid and emerging, he decides who this evening's victims will be. The baker
and his wife, he thinks to himself. Succulent, available, and unsuspecting.
The thought of the unwary couple whose trust he has carefully cultivated
excites his blood lust to a fever pitch, and he can barely hold back these
last seconds before climbing out of the coffin to seek his prey.
Suddenly he knows the sun is down. Like an angel of hell, he rises
swiftly, and changing into a bat, flies pell-mell to the cottage of his tantalizing victims.
"Why, Count Dracula, what a nice surprise," the baker's wife says,
opening the door to admit him. (He has once again assumed human form,
as he enters their home, charmingly concealing his rapacious goal.)
"What brings you here so early?" the baker asks.
"Our dinner date," the Count answers. "I hope I haven't made an error.
You did invite me for tonight, didn't you?"
"Yes, tonight, but that's not for seven hours."
"Pardon me ?" Dracula queries, looking around the room puzzled.
"Or did you come by to watch the eclipse with us?"
"Eclipse ?"
"Yes. Today's the total eclipse."
"What?"
"A few moments of darkness from noon until two minutes after. Look
out the window."
"Uh-oh-I'm in big trouble."
"Eh?"
"And now if you'll excuse me . 
WoooY A LLEN ? 323
"What, Count Dracula?"
"Must be going-aha-oh, god . . " Frantically he fumbles for the
door knob.
"Going? You just came."
"Yes-but-1 think I blew it very badly . . "
"Count Dracula, you're pale."
"Am I? I need a little fresh air. It was nice seeing you .
"Come. Sit down. We'll have a drink."
"Drink? No, I must run. Er-you're stepping on my cape."
"Sure. Relax. Some wine."
"Wine? Oh no, gave it up-liver and all that, you know. And now I
really must buzz off. I just remembered, I left the lights on at my castle-­
bills'll be enormous ... "
"Please," the baker says, his arm around the Count in firm friendship.
"You're not intruding. Don't be so polite. So you're early."
"Really, I'd like to stay but there's a meeting of old Roumanian Counts
across town and I'm responsible for the cold cuts."
"Rush, rush, rush. It's a wonder you don't get a heart attack."
"Yes, right-and now-"
"I'm making Chicken Pilaf tonight," the baker's wife chimes in. "I hope
you like it."
"Wonderful, wonderful," the Count says, with a smile, as he pushes
her aside into some laundry. Then,, opening a closet door by mistake, he
walks in. "Christ, where's the goddamn front door?"
"Ach," laughs the baker's wife, "such a funny man, the Count."
"I knew you'd like that," Dracula says, forcing a chuckle, "now get
out of my way." At last he opens the front door but time has run out
on him.
"Oh, look, Mama," says the baker, "the eclipse must be over. The sun
is coming out again."
"Right," says Dracula, slamming the front door. "I've decided to stay.
Pull down the window shades quic:kly-quickly! Let's move it!"
"What window shades?" asks the baker.
"There are none, right? Figures. You got a basement in this joint?"
"No," says the wife affably, "I'm always telling Jarslov to build one
but he never listens. That's some Jarslov, my husband."
"I'm all choked up. Where's the closet?"
"You did that one already, Count Dracula. Unt Mama and I laughed
at it."
"Ach-such a funny man, the Count."
"Look, I'll be in the closet. Knock at seven-thirty." And with that, the
Count steps inside the closet and slams the door.
"Hee-hee-he is so funny, Jarslov."
"Oh, Count. Come out of the closet. Stop being a big silly." From
inside the closet comes the muffled voice of Dracula. 
324 ?
?)l)¥Ji COUNT DRACULA
"Can't-please-take my word for it. Just let me stay here. I'm fine.
Really."
"Count Dracula, stop the fooling. We're already helpless with
laughter."
"Can I tell you, I love this closet."
"Yes, but . . . "
"I know, I know ... it seems strange, and yet here I am, having a ball.
I was just saying to Mrs. Hess the other day, give me a good closet and
I can stand in it for hours. Sweet woman, Mrs. Hess. Fat but sweet ...
Now, why don't you run along and check back with me at sunset. Oh,
Ramona, Ia da da de da da de, Ramona ... "
Now the Mayor and his wife, Katia, arrive. They are passing by and
have decided to pay a call on their good friends, the baker and his wife.
"Hello, Jarslov. I hope Katia and I are not intruding?"
"Of course not, Mr. Mayor. Come out, Count Dracula! We have
company!"
"Is the Count here ?" asks the Mayor surprised.
"Yes, and you'll never guess where," says the baker's wife.
"It's so rare to see him around this early. In fact I can't ever remember
seeing him around in the daytime."
"Well, he's here. Come out, Count Dracula!"
"Where is he?" Katia asks, not knowing whether to laugh or not.
"Come on out now! Let's go!" The baker's wife is getting impatient.
"He's in the closet," says the baker, apologetically.
"Really?" asks the Mayor.
"Let's go," says the baker with mock good humor as he knocks on the
closet door. "Enough is enough. The Mayor's here."
"Come on out, Dracula," His Honor shouts, "let's have a drink."
"No, go ahead. I've got some business in here."
"In the closet?"
"Yes, don't let me spoil your day. I can hear what you're saymg. I'll
join in if I have anything to add." ,
Everyone looks at one another and shrugs. Wine is poured and they
all drink.
"Some eclipse today," the Mayor says, sipping from his glass.
"Yes," the baker agrees. "Incredible."
"Yeah. Thrilling," says a voice from the closet.
"What, Dracula?"
"Nothing, nothing. Let it go."
And so the time passes, until the Mayor can stand it no longer and
forcing open the door to the closet, he shouts, "Come on, Dracula. I
always thought you were a mature man. Stop this craziness."
The daylight streams in, causing the evil monster to shriek and slowly
dissolve to a skeleton and then to dust before the eyes of the four people
present. Leaning down to the pile of white ash on the closet floor, the
baker's wife shouts, "Does this mean dinner's off tonight?" 
········"I ········
THE HEROIC
VAMPIRE
I
s vampirism an unnatural plague or merely another alternative lifestyle?
One hundred years after Dracula, readers are finding it easier to identify
with vampiric protagonists and even admire them. In a more secular and
hostile age, where undeath is not automatically synonymous with damnation, even Dracula can be a hero if seen from the right point of view. Over
the last few decades fictional vampires have been transformed from remorseless seducers and killers, to tormented souls wrestling with an affliction beyond their control, to, increasingly, genuinely heroic figures who are
morally superior to the petty, short-lived humans who surround them. It is
not surprising that more and more young readers identify with the vampire
who is exiled from normal experience, a sexual experimenter, a sensualist,
and, above all, someone who has found a way to stay young.
There has been a steady drifting olf audience or reader sympathy in favor of
the vampire, perhaps beginning with the film Dracula (1931), in which Bela
Lugosi as the title character is fascinating, though perhaps not congenial. Film
Draculas following Lugosi have been increasingly attractive figures.
This trend achieved greater visibility in the 1960s, with the creation of Barnabas Collins on television's Dark Shadows and the popular comic book heroine
Vampirella, and accelerated rapidly from there. Even more admirable and altruistic is Chelsea Quinn Yarbro's popullar creation, the Count Saint-Germain. Introduced in Hotel Transylvania in 1977, Saint-Germain is perhaps the purest
example of the heroic vampire in modern fiction; he has defended the innocent
and battled the corrupt in nearly a dozen books and has a passionate fan following. Although few other vampires can live up to his sterling example, several
other sympathetic vampire protagonists do grace, with their sometimes uneasy
consciences, the annals of modern vampire fiction.
One person's vampire hero, though, can be another person's worst
nightmare, and sometimes it can be difficult to tell the good vampires
from the bad, especially when they all leave large body counts behind.
But one characteristic of vampires, we recall, is their ability to change
shape. So perhaps we should not be too surprised when they transform
from monsters to heroes ... and back again. 
CHELSEA QuiNN YARBRO
(b. 1942)
Born and raised in Berkeley, California, Chelsea Quinn Yarbro has published more than fifty books, sixty short stories, and a handful of essays
and reviews in almost three decades as a professional writer. Her work
covers many genres: horror, science fiction, fantasy, thriller, mystery, historical, romantic suspense, young adult, and westerns.
Yarbro is perhaps best known for her immensely popular vampire novels featuring the Count Saint-Germain, the first of which, Hotel Transylvania (1 977), is excerpted here. The others include The Palace (1 978), Blood
Games (1 979), Path of the Eclipse (1 981), Tempting Fate (1 982), Out of
the House of Life (1 990), Darker Jewels (1 993), Better in the Dark (1 993),
Mansions of Darkness (1 996), and Writ in Blood (1 997). She is writing
a trilogy of novels about Count Dracula's wives, the first of which is The
Angry Angel (1 998).
The trick that both Yarbro and Anne Rice have accomplished-inventing heroic, admirable vampires-seems beyond comprehension. In the
presence of such protagonists, readers must reconcile their elegance with
the fact that they sustain themselves by taking the blood of other humans.
Still, Yarbro's Saint-Germain is charming and attractive, and the author
reassures us that he never takes more blood than he needs-and then
only from willing victims. Among his other skills, he has learned how to
temporarily outwit the requirement that vampires sleep in their native soil:
he has had that soil built into the soles of his shoes! 
Excerpt from
HOTEL TRANSYLVANIA
'
Excerpt from one of a series of letters written by le Baron
Clotaire de Saint Sebastien to the absent members of his Circle; undated:
... The chapel may be reached by a secret tunnel that leads from
the Seine to the abandoned vaults of the monastery that stood near the
river over five hundred years ago. You will find the entrance to the
tunnel on the river side of Quai Malaquais between Ia rue des Saints
Peres and Ia rue de Seine. The tunnel is reinforced with heavy stones,
and you should bring a club with you, for there are many rats .
. . . On the other side of the burial vaults is the chapel. It is rumored
that practices of our sort were in effect there as long ago as the reign
of the Spider King, which is auspicious. Certainly it has seen more
recent use, for La Voison mentioned it and several others like it in and
around Paris, to many of that Circle, to which my grandfather
belonged.
The chapel itself is almost directly under Hotel Transylvania. I find
myself amused by this contrast .. Above us, our splendid equals will be
playing at dice, and risking several generations' fortune on the turn of
a card, thinking that they have found the answer to power and fame,
while we, far under their feet, will perform the rituals that will bring
us power as they do not know exists, and the control of France more
potent than the throne.
Let me warn you: apparently there is some means of access to the
chapel from Hotel Transylvania, although I have not discovered it, and
it is doubtful that the owners of the Hotel or the staff are aware of it.
But you will admit that it would be most unfortunate if any of our
number should use it, and even more important if any unlucky member
of the Hotel's staff should happen to discover our presence. For that,
and other reasons, I will insist that each of you take turns standing
guard. You will not be deprived of the delights of our sacrifice, or the
use of our offering, who I find will be excellent. Even the slight taste
I have had of her tells me that it will be a splendid thing to destroy
her. But we must be secret. Reflection on the scandal that accompanied
the last discovery of a Circle should make the need for these precautions
obvious to you. One Affair of the Poisons is enough for France. I will
not tolerate any of you being so clumsy as was Montespan.
As I write this last message the hour of one has struck. I charge you 
328 @'01
?}D}.lJJ H o TEL T RANSYLVANIA
to be at the chapel by the third hour of the morning, as we have
planned. It may be a good thing that we have moved to the chapel
ahead of the planned time for it reduces our chance of discovery and
allows more leisure to make the offerings acceptable.
If you fail me in this, I will know you for my enemy, and will deal
with you accordingly at my first opportunity. If you will not bow before
Satan, you may still be of use to him, and to me. Think of the dismal
fate of others who have stood against me, and let your decision reflect
the benefit of your contemplations.
Until the third hour of the morning, then, and the first ritual, when
we will offer on the altar the body of one who has betrayed me, be
certain that you are in my thoughts-for advantage and luxury beyond
y0ur fondest hopes, or destruction, as you choose. It is my honor to be
Your most devoted
Baron Clotaire de Saint Sebastien
Water darkened the stones of the tunnel, and on the uneven flags that
served as flooring, there was a thin film of slime, making it difficult to
walk. A pervasive fetid odor filled the close air, making even the torches
seem dimmed by the stench.
"Do not drop him!" Saint Sebastien ordered to the men who followed
him through the tunnel.
Achille Cressie, who bore the shoulders of Robert de Montalia, complained, "Why did you have to drug him? We should have bound him."
"So that you could be entertained by his dear words, Achille?" Saint
Sebastien's tone was poisonously sweet.
This did not have the expected effect on Achille, who chuckled unpleasantly. "You should have heard him in the tack room. How he despised
himself when his flesh warmed to me."
De les Radeux, who held de Montalia's legs, gave a deprecating sigh.
"It is all very well for you to boast of your prowess, Achille, but you will
not let anyone watch, or share." He slid on the watery ooze, cursing.
?'Pay attention!" Saint Sebastien barked out the order.
"He is heavy," de les Radeux insisted, sulking.
"All the more reason for you to keep your mind on what you are doing
and away from your vain rivalry with Achille. If you cannot do as you
are told, you are of no use to me."
De les Radeux muttered an imprecation under his breath, but steadied
his grip on the drugged Robert de Montalia, going the rest of the way
into the vault in silence.
The air was somewhat better there, not so close, and since the ancient
stones were farther away from the river, the vault did not have that
clammy cold that had made the tunnel so unbearable. Yet, it was a gloomy
place. In the niches around the walls were the partially mummified remains of monks who had died three hundred years before. A closer look 
CHEL S EA QUINN Y A RBRO ? 329
showed that most of the bodies had been profaned and that the crucifixes
that had lain in their skeletal fingers had been replaced by phalluses, and
that where consecrated oil had marked their foreheads as those belonging
to God, there were now dried reddish stains in the symbol of Satan.
Saint Sebastien held his torch higher, and went quickly through the
vault, arriving at last at a thick door set in the wall. The door was
somewhat out of place in the Romanesque setting, for its design was
recent, the strong iron hinges and other fittings still showing traces of oil
to prevent rust, and the carving on the door indicated to what perverse
use the chapel beyond had been put.
The door yawned open on nearly silent fittings, revealing the first area
of the chapel beyond. Saint Sebastien sighed as he held the door for
Cressie and de les Radeux. It would be an easy matter now. They had
escaped detection, and there was no evidence that the chapel had been
found and cleansed of the demonic presence.
Saint Sebastien walked farther into the chapel, his torch bringing light
to the crude murals that adorned the walls, showing all the excesses of
Satanic worship. Saint Sebastien smiled at one particularly horrendous
representation, then went to the altar, saying to the panting men behind
him, "Here, I think. Strip him and tie him down. I do not want to have
to subdue him again."
De les Radeux said at his surliest, "I am honored to do this." He glared
at the altar, at Saint Sebastien, at the man he carried. This was not at all
what he had anticipated. He had been told that the ceremonies of the
Circle were grand occasions. His uncle Beauvrai had dwelt lovingly on
the complex gratifications that were offered for every desire as well as the
opportunity to advance in power !through these practices. But here he was
in a cold stone room, under the ground, carrying le Marquis de Montalia
and bowing and scraping to Saint Sebastien as if Saint Sebastien were
king or archangel and he was the lowest peasant in France. To make
matters worse, the damp had quite ruined his satin coat and fine whitesilk hose. He wished now that he had had the foresight to keep his riding
boots on.
With a last grunt, de les Radeux and Achille Cressie hoisted Robert de
Montalia onto the altar, and set about pulling his clothes off, a task that
proved to be surprisingly difficult.
It took Saint Sebastien about ten minutes to recite the required incantations as he lit the fifteen torches that lined the walls. The brightness grew,
but the flickering of the torches made that brightness unsteady, a leaping,
irregular illumination that gave weird life to the grotesque paintings on
the walls.
A noise beyond the door brought Saint Sebastien's attention to the task
at hand. He called out the password and waited for a response. The
proper words came back, and he went to open the door. 
330 '{ {'??
]? H c)TEL T RANSYLVANIA
Jueneport stood there, Madelaine in his arms. "Where do you want
her ?"
Saint Sebastien studied the limp figure. "I think we must put her where
she can watch what we do to her father. Perhaps there." He motioned to
the inverted crucifix that hung over the altar.
"It doesn't look safe to me," Jucneport said slowly. "She's strong
enough to pull it out of the wall."
"I see your point." Saint Sebastien considered for a moment longer.
"We could tie her there. She would then sec what is done to her father,
and we would see what is her reaction. An excellent combination." He
had pointed to the screen that had once guarded part of the sanctuary,
when the chapel had been used by the monks and not the Circles who
had come to own it.
"It is strong," Jueneport agreed. "Very well. I imagine there are ropes
available ?"
"Behind the altar. Take what you need."
Jueneport nodded, then went to where de les Radeux and Achille Cressie worked to secure Robert de Montalia to the altar. Achille worked
more slowly, pausing every now and then to run his hands over the nude
body, an unpleasant light in his face as he said, "We could bind his organ
as well. That way, his pain would be doubled, as would our sport."
De les Radeux shot him a look of tolerant disgust. "Is your lust all that
goads you to this, Achille? Have you no other desires?"
The laughter that greeted these questions made Saint Sebastien turn,
angered. "None of that, Achille, or I will forbid you to take part in
the celebration."
Achille pouted, then shrugged and negligently returned to his task.
Now there was another knock at the door, and the passwords were
once again exchanged. De Ia Sept-Nuit came in, his eyes searching for
and finding the pathetic figure of Madelaine. He gestured to the bag he
held. "These are the robes, mon Baron. They are all prepared, and need
only your curse before we don them."
Saint Sebastien traced the pentagram in the air and said a few syllables
of backward Latin. "You may dress whenever you like. Make sure your
own garments are out of the way."
"I will." De Ia Sept-Nuit went away to a side alcove and returned
several minutes later in the pleated silk robe of the Circle. It resembled a
soutane, but the pleated silk clung to the body in a way no priestly garb
did, and the neck opening ran the length of the robe to the hem, so that
the material opened to reveal the body as de Ia Sept-Nuit walked across
the chapel.
"I have put your robe aside," de Ia Sept-Nuit said. "Yours is the red
with the embroidery, is that not so?"
"Yes. If you will take this torch and put i t i n place by the altar. I will
invest myself. Are the bracelets there as well?" 
,jfl :z CHELSEA Q UINN Y ARBRO \""' 331
"Two of silver, one of black glass. They're with the robe. You will find
them. They are still wrapped as you want them to be."
"I am pleased to hear it. That is to your advantage."
De Ia Sept-Nuit shook his head. "You know what reward I would most
enjoy." He waved a languid hand toward Madelaine, whom Jueneport
had finished binding to the heavy screen. She was naked, and bruises were
beginning to show on her flesh.
"Perhaps. With Tite dead, perhaps." He strolled away to put on his
robes.
When he returned, the rest of the Circle had arrived and were concluding the preparations for the first ceremony. Chateaurose was now a little
the worse for drink, but he knew the motions well enough that he would
complete them without hazard.
"Have the sacrifices wakened yet?" Saint Sebastien asked as he came
down the aisle toward the altar. He was gorgeous now in the heavy red
silk which hung open showing his lean, hard body that had been only
lightly touched by age. Gone was the polish that marked his public dealings, and in its place was a terrible mastery, made even stronger by the
signs of office he wore around his neck, the sign of the pentagram and
the obscene crucifix.
"Not yet, though the woman is stirring."
"They must be awake in twenty minutes. See to it that they are." He
turned away and ignored the efforts of his Circle to force Madelaine and
her father to be roused.
Beauvrai strode over to Saint Sebastien. "Well, Clotaire, how is your
revenge ?" Out of his ridiculous court finery, he was no longer the foppish
fool he often appeared to be. In the black-silk robe none of his absurdity
remained, and only the malice in him shone at full force, no longer hampered by his outward trappings.
"I have not tasted it yet. But soon. Soon."
"What for Robert? Have you thought of it?"
"Of course." He fingered the two medallions that hung halfway down
his chest. "It will please you, mon Baron."
"I hope so." He turned aside, saying under his breath, "That nephew
of mine is rather an ass, Clotaire."
"He seemed s o t o me as well," Saint Sebastien agreed at his most silky.
"One would think he was too foolish to live."
"My point precisely." He bowed to Saint Sebastien and walked off to
take his place in the first rank of worshipers.
At last Achille Cressie thought to bring two pails of water, and these
he threw over Madelaine and Robert de Montalia. He was satisfied as he
heard the woman stutter and her father gag. "I think we are ready," he
said, very satisfied.
"That is good. We are very near the hour." Saint Sebastien came forward and plucked painfully at Madelaine's breasts and her cheeks. This 
>) ,-;-::
332 '1L? il't H oTEL TRANSYLVANIA
brought a quick cry in response, and Saint Sebastien was reassured. "Yes,
my dear," he said softly, caressingly, "it is I. You have not fled me."
Madelaine half-opened her violet eyes, and felt herself turn an icy cold
that had little to do with the water that had drenched her. "SaintGermain," she whispered in her desperation.
Saint Sebastien achieved a magnificent sneer. "So you long for that
hoaxing fop, do you?" He reached out and slapped her face. "It is not
that impostor who has you now." He turned away from the fury in her
face and walked to the altar.
"He is awake," Achille told Saint Sebastien. "You have only to touch
him to see the disgust in his face." He demonstrated this in superb imitation of Saint Sebastien's grand and evil manner.
"You have done well, Achille. I may let you enjoy yourself again before
we dispatch Robert." He put one insolent hand on Robert's cold flesh.
"How sad, my friend, that I cannot offer you a blanket. But you have
my promise that I will see that you are warmed in other ways. You know
that I always keep my promises."
Robert, whose jaw had tightened steadily through this new indignity,
spat once, most accurately, at Saint Sebastien, then forced himself once
again to stoic silence.
"You will make it worse for yourself, Robert." Saint Sebastien stood
back, then lifted his arms and called out to the members of the Circle,
who waited, robed and silent, before him. "We are met in the name of
Satan, that we may grow in his power and his great strength, which is
the strength of the great lie. We meet that we may join him in power, be
with him in potency and in savagery, and to that end we bring him
sacrifices."
"We bring him sacrifices," the Circle chanted.
"Lives, paid in blood, in degradation."
"In blood and degradation."
Madelaine, her arms aching from the bonds that held her to the screen,
her body already hurt from the cruelty of the men gathered in the debauched chapel, felt herself sway in her bonds, almost overcome with fear
and wretchedness. And she knew that for her the heinous men had not
even begun to do what they were capable of doing. She remembered that
there would be forty days for her destruction. She told herself in the back
of her thoughts that they could not succeed, that she would be missed,
and her father, that someone would find her, save her. Again she felt her
soul reach out for Saint-Germain, filled with her yearning for him as much
as with her panic-stricken desire for escape. But she did not know if she
could dare to hope, not with the chanting growing louder.
"This forsworn one, your betrayer, Satan!"
"Your betrayer!"
"Brought back again to make expiation for his duplicity." Saint Sebas-
'?') .. -;(
I )i} '{" CHELSEA QUINN Y ARBRO 333
tien held aloft a curiously curved dagger, letting the blade flash in the
quivering torchlight.
"Your betrayer !"
Saint Sebastien put the point of the dagger against Robert de Montalia's
chest, and with concentrated precision he cut the pentagram into his skin.
"He is marked as yours, Satan!"
"Marked!" This triumphant shout covered the groans that Robert could
not hold back.
"For your strength is not to be spurned, and your power is not
mocked!"
"Power and strength are yours alone !"
Madelaine shook her head, as if the very motion would shut out the
sounds that assaulted her. She could not look at her father as he steeled
himself against further outrage, and she would not look at Saint Sebastien.
The chanting got louder.
"Let him taste of your wrath!"
"Let him taste of your wrath!" came the shout from the Circle as Saint
Sebastien brought the blade swiftly down and held up Robert's ear as a
gory trophy. A great cry from the Circle combined with Robert de Montalia's scream, and the noise continued rising like a wave as Saint Sebastien
put the ear to his mouth and licked it. The Circle surged forward, hysteria
pulling them toward the ghastly spectacle. Saint Sebastien motioned for
silence, the dagger held high as he waited.
His dramatic effect was quite destroyed when a voice spoke from the
rear of the chapel, a voice that was beautifully modulated, and tinged
with a slight Piedmontese accent. "I am glad I am in time, gentlemen,"
said le Comte de Saint-Germain.
Relief, more weakening than her terror had been, filled Madelaine, turning her very bones to water. The tears she had held back welled in her
eyes, and a pang sharp as Saint Sebastien's knife lodged itself in her breast.
The members of the Circle turned, each member's face showing that
dazed stupidity that often comes with being wakened from a sound sleep.
Their movements were jerky, and the momentum of their ferocity faltered.
Saint-Germain came down the aisle toward the terrible altar. All of the
elegant frippery of manner had vanished with his splendid clothes. Now
his movements suited the tight riding coat of black leather worn over
tight woolen breeches that were also black. His high boots were widecuffed, and the simple shirt under the coat was adorned with Russian
embroidery showing a pattern of steppe wildflowers known as tulips. He
carried no sword or other weapon, and was alone.
Saint Sebastien watched him, wrath showing in his narrowed eyes and
malicious smile. He nodded, motioning his Circle to keep back. "Ragoczy, " he said. "I did not believe. I did not recognize ... "
Saint-Germain inclined his head. "I have told you before that appearances are deceiving." 
334 ?
?)9}!JI H OTEL TRANSYLVANIA
"But that was thirty years ago." He moved closer, the dagger held
tightly in his hand.
"Was it? I will take your word for it." If he knew that he was in
danger, nothing but the hot stare of his eyes suggested it.
"Your father, then?" Saint Sebastien closed in on Saint-Germain, almost
near enough to strike.
"I was not aware that I had changed so much in that time." He had
taken in the chapel and its uses when he entered it, and now he was
prepared to deal with Saint Sebastien on his own ground. He touched the
small locketlike receptacle that hung on a chain around his neck.
Saint Sebastien had already raised his dagger, and was about to make a
sudden rush, when Saint-Germain's arm shot out, seized Saint Sebastien's
shoulder, not to hold him back, but to pull him forward, sending him
hurtling past Saint-Germain to crash into the stack of ruined pews at the
back of the chapel.
Saint-Germain glanced toward Saint Sebastien, then directed his penetrating eyes to the members of the Circle who stood around the altar.
"How absurd you are," he said lightly. "You should see yourselves standing there in your fine robes, with your manhood, if you can call it that,
peeking out at the world like so many birds." He waited for the hostile
words to stop. "You are foolish. Do you think that you will enhance your
place in the world, obtain power and position, by following Saint Sebastien's orders? It is his position and power that your profane offices enhance. It is his desires that are met. And you, thinking that you get these
things for yourselves, give yourself to him without question. If I were the
one you worship, I would think poorly of your practices."
Beauvrai was the first to object. "You think we're stupid, you, who
came here with nothing to protect you. . . . "
Saint-Germain held up the locket on the chain. "I beg your pardon,
Baron. I have this. You are not so far removed from the faith you were
born to that you cannot recognize a pyx."
The Circle, which had been growing restless, now became hushed again.
"You are asking yourselves if this is genuine." He held the pyx higher.
"You may try to touch it if you like. I understand the burns are instantaneous." He waited, while the silk-robed men held back. "I see."
A sudden noise behind him made him turn, and in that moment he
cursed himself for not being sure that Saint Sebastien was unconscious,
for now the leader of the Circle was rushing toward Madelaine, and
although he no longer carried a dagger, there was a wickedly broken piece
of planking in his hands, and this he held ready to strike.
At that moment, the hush, the almost somnambulistic trance that had
held the Circle members to their clumsiness and to Saint-Germain's control, ruptured with the explosiveness of a Dutch dyke bursting to let in
the sea. With an awful shout, the men in the silken robes flung themselves
at Saint-Germain. 
1)'•) 1,.?
•JQ'L C HELSEA QUINN Y AR B RO 335
Excerpt from a note written by ]]'Abbe Ponteneuf to his cousin, le Comtesse d' Argenlac, dated N ovem her 5, 1 7 4 3:
... From my heart of hearts I pray God that He will comfort you
and open your eyes to the glory that awaits all good Christians beyond
the grave and the shadow of death. It is my duty to write this letter
to you, my poor cousin, but even now my pen falters and I cannot
find it in me to tell you what has befallen. I beseech you to marshal
your heart to greet this terrible news with true fortitude, for all of us
who know and love you cannot but wish that you would never have
to endure the ordeal that is now before you.
It was rather less than an hour ago when a coach called for me, to
take me to a church on the outskirts of the city. You may imagine my
surprise at this unlikely request, for it is not usual to have such a
request forthcoming at so late an hour. But I have not been a priest
for twenty years without learning to accept what God sends me without
complaint. So it was that I went in the coach to the church to which
I have already alluded. We arrived in good time, and I was immediately
ushered into the sanctuary, where an awesome sight met my eyes.
There, laid out before me, were the bodies of three men. One was a
mountebank, from the look of him, and I did not know anything of
him. Another was one of Saint Sebastien's servants, whom I recognized
by the livery. Saint Sebastien is such an unrepentant sinner of all the
Deadly Sins that I did not know the man himself, but his master is
not likely to have set his feet on a path toward Our Lord and His
Sweet Mother.
It is the third man I must speak of, and it stops my heart to say this.
The third man was le Comte d'Argenlac, your own beloved husband,
whom you have loved so tenderly, and who has always been your
staunch protector. It is further my most unpleasant duty to inform you
that he did not die by accident or an act of God. He was, my unfortunate cousin, cold-bloodedly slain by a person or persons unknown.
The cure at this church has given me the use of his study that I
might send you news immediately. His understanding is not great, but
he is a good man, and I have told him that le Comte is known to me,
and that it is only appropriate that you, as my cousin, should hear
of this tragedy from one who has the knowledge of your particular
circumstances.
Do not let yourself be overwhelmed. Pray to Mary for the saving of
your husband's soul. You will find that such religious exercise does
much to alleviate your grief, which must surely consume you otherwise.
l have often remarked that when God made Woman as helpmeet to
Man, He made her prey to whims and weaknesses that her mate does 
336 ?
?)j)¥-Jl HoTEL TR ANSYLVANIA
not know. The excellent solace of Scripture will help you to control
those emotions which must fill your breast as you read this ....
I will take it upon myself to see that le Comte's body is removed to
his parish church immediately, and that such notice as must be given
of his death be delivered to the proper authorities. If you are not too
incapacitated by this terrible event, perhaps, you will allow me to visit
you and read with you the Great Words that will assuage your sorrow.
In the name of God, Who even now welcomes your beloved husband
to the Glories of Paradise, I am always
Your obedient cousin,
L' Abbe Ponteneuf, S.J. 
ANNE RICE
(b. 1941)
Born Howard Allen O'Brien, Anne Rice was raised in New Orleans and
later attended San Francisco State University. A prolific writer, she works
in more than one genre and under more than one name; she writes as
Anne Rampling for her mainstream fiction, and as A. N. Rocquelaire for
her works of sadomasochistic pornography. However, she is best known
for the Vampire Chronicles, written under her own name. The first volume
in this series, Interview with the Vampire (1 976), was heralded as bringing
a new direction in vampire fiction, and established her as the foremost,
and the most ambitious, writer on vampire themes in the world. In this
series, which also includes The Vampire Lestat (1 985), The Queen of the
Damned (1 988), The Tale of the Body Thief (1 992), and Memnoch the
Devil (1 995), she has created an epic genealogy of the vampire gods and
shown them living among us as a superbly beautiful, mostly immortal,
endlessly youthful and good-looking race. Their lovemaking has proved
titillating to readers, perhaps speaking to the psychological hungers of
people sidelined from contemporary culture.
Another fascinating element in Rice's work, and one exploited by Bram
Stoker in Dracula, is the way in which the deadly amorous adventures of
her characters are occasionally framed by religious discourse, imparting a
glow of high seriousness to her novels.
As with Stoker's Dracula, the ;vampire of this short story-who is the
master referred to in the title-remains a mysterious figure, visible only
to Julie, the story's protagonist. The alluring power of a house also plays
a role, as Julie becomes entranced with the Rampling estate, defying her
father's dying wish that the place be torn down. 
THE MASTER OF
RAMPLING GATE
Rampling Gate: It was so real to us in those old pictures, rising
like a fairytale castle out of its own dark wood. A wilderness of gables and
chimneys between those two immense towers, grey stone walls mantled in
ivy, mullioned windows reflecting the drifting clouds.
But why had Father never gone there? Why had he never taken us?
And why on his deathbed, in those grim months after Mother's passing,
did he tell my brother, Richard, that Rampling Gate must be torn down
stone by stone? Rampling Gate that had always belonged to Ramplings,
Rampling Gate which had stood for over four hundred years.
We were in awe of the task that lay before us, and painfully confused.
Richard had j ust finished four years at Oxford. Two whirlwind social
seasons in London had proven me something of a shy success. I still
preferred scribbling poems and stories in the quiet of my room to dancing
the night away, but I'd kept that a good secret, and though we were not
spoilt children, we had enjoyed the best of everything our parents could
give. But now the carefree years were ended. We had to be careful and
WISe.
And our hearts ached as, sitting together in Father's booklined study,
we looked at the old pictures of Rampling Gate before the small coal fire.
"Destroy it, Richard, as soon as I am gone," Father had said.
"I j ust don't understand it, Julie," Richard confessed, as he filled the
little crystal glass in my hand with sherry. "It's the genuine article, that
old place, a real fourteenth-century manor house in excellent repair. A
Mrs. Blessington, born and reared in the village of Rampling, has apparently managed it all these years. She was there when Uncle Baxter died,
and he was last Rampling to live under that roof."
"Do you remember," I asked, "the year that Father took all these pictures down and put them away?"
"I shall never forget that!" Richard said. "How could I? It was so
peculiar, and so unlike Father, too." He sat back, drawing slowly on his
pipe. "There had been that bizarre incident in Victoria Station, when he
had seen that young man."
"Yes, exactly," I said, snuggling back into the velvet chair and looking
into the tiny dancing flames in the grate. "You remember how upset
Father was?"
Yet it was simple incident. In fact nothing really happened at all. We
couldn't have been more than six and eight at the time and we had gone 
A NNE RICE ? 339
to the station with Father to say farewell to friends. Through the window
of a train Father saw a young man who startled and upset him. I could
remember the face clearly to this day. Remarkably handsome, with a
narrow nose and well drawn eyebrows, and a mop of lustrous brown
hair. The large black eyes had regarded Father with the saddest expression
as Father had drawn us back and hurried us away.
"And the argument that night, between Father and Mother," Richard
said thoughtfully. "I remember that we listened on the landing and we
were so afraid."
"And Father said he wasn't content to be master of Rampling Gate
anymore; he had come to London and revealed himself. An unspeakable
horror, that is what he called it, that he should be so bold."
"Yes, exactly, and when Mother tried to quiet him, when she suggested
that he was imagining things, he went into a perfect rage."
"But who could it have been, the master of Rampling Gate, if Father
wasn't the master? Uncle Baxter was long dead by then."
"I just don't know what to make of it," Richard murmured. "And
there's nothing in Father's papers to explain any of it at all." He examined
the most recent of the pictures, a lovely tinted engraving that showed the
house perfectly reflected in the azure water of its lake. "But I tell you,
the worst part of it, Julie," he said shaking his head, "is that we've never
even seen the house ourselves."
I glanced at him and our eyes met in a moment of confusion that
quickly passed to something else. I leant forward:
"He did not say we couldn't go there, did he, Richard?" I demanded.
"That we couldn't visit the house before it was destroyed."
"No, of course he didn't!" Richard said. The smile broke over his face
easily. "After all, don't we owe it to the others, Julie? Uncle Baxter who
spent the last of his fortune restoring the house, even this old Mrs. Blessington that has kept it all these years?"
"And what about the village itself?" I added quickly. "What will it
mean to these people to see Rampling Gate destroyed? Of course we must
go and see the place ourselves."
"Then it's settled. I'll write to Mrs. Blessington immediately. I'll tell her
we're coming and that we can not say how long we will stay."
"Oh, Richard, that would be too marvelous!" I couldn't keep from
hugging him, though it flustered him and he pulled on his pipe j ust exactly
the way Father would have done. "Make it at least a fortnight," I said.
"I want so to know the place, especially if ... "
But it was too sad to think of Father's admonition. And much more
fun to think of the journey itself. I'd pack my manuscripts, for who knew,
maybe in that melancholy and exquisite setting I'd find exactly the inspiration I required. It was almost a wicked exhilaration I felt, breaking the
gloom that had hung over us since the day that Father was laid to rest.
"It is the right thing to do, isn't it, Richard?" I asked uncertainly, a 
340 ?THE MAST E R OF RAMPLING GATE
little disconcerted by how much I wanted to go. There was some illicit
pleasure in it, going to Rampling Gate at last.
" 'Unspeakable horror,' " I repeated Father's words with a little grimace. What did it all mean? I thought again of the strange, almost exquisite young man I'd glimpsed in that railway carriage, gazing at us all with
that wistful expression on his lean face. He had worn a black greatcoat
with a red woollen cravat, and I could remember how pale he had been
against that dash of red. Like bone china his complexion had been.
Strange to remember it so vividly, even to the tilt of his head, and that
long luxuriant brown hair. But he had been a blaze against that window.
And I realized now that, in those few remarkable moments, he had created
for me an ideal of masculine beauty which I had never questioned since.
But Father had been so angry in those moments ... I felt an unmistakable
pang of guilt.
"Of course it's the right thing, Julie," Richard answered. He at the
desk, already writing the letters, and I was at a loss to understand the
full measure of my thoughts.
It was late afternoon when the wretched old trap carried us up the gentle
slope from the little railway station, and we had at last our first real look
at that magnificent house. I think I was holding my breath. The sky had
paled to a deep rose hue beyond a bank of softly gilded clouds, and the
last rays of the sun struck the uppermost panes of the leaded windows
a?d filled them with solid gold.
"Oh, but it's too majestic," I whispered, "too like a great cathedral,
and to think that it belongs to us." Richard gave me the smallest kiss on
the cheek. I felt mad suddenly and eager somehow to be laid waste by it,
through fear or enchantment I could not say, perhaps a sublime mingling
of both.
I wanted with all my heart to j ump down and draw near on foot,
letting those towers grow larger and larger above me, but our old horse
had picked up speed. And the little line of stiff starched servants had
broken to come forward, the old withered housekeeper with her arms
out, the men to take down the boxes and the trunks.
Richard and I were spirited into the great hall by the tiny, nimble figure
of Mrs. Blessington, our footfalls echoing loudly on the marble tile, our
eyes dazzled by the dusty shafts of light that fell on the long oak table
and its heavily carved chairs, the sombre, heavy tapestries that stirred ever
so slightly against the soaring walls.
"It is an enchanted place," I cried, unable to contain myself. Oh, Richard, we are home!" Mrs. Blessington laughed gaily, her dry hand closing
tightly on mine.
Her small blue eyes regarded me with the most curiously vacant expression despite her smile. "Ramplings at Rampling Gate again, I can not tell
you what a joyful day this is for me. And yes, my dear," she said as if 
ANNE RICE ? 341
reading my mind that very second, "I am and have been for many years,
quite blind. But if you spy a thing out of place in this house, you're to
tell me at once, for it would be the exception, I assure you, and not the
rule." And such warmth emanattd from her wrinkled little face that I
adored her at once.
We found our bedchambers, the very finest in the house, well aired
with snow white linen and fires blazing cozily to dry out the damp that
never left the thick walls. The small diamond pane windows opened on
a glorious view of the water and the oaks that enclosed it and the few
scattered lights that marked the village beyond.
That night, we laughed like children as we supped at the great oak
table, our candles giving only a feeble light. And afterwards, it was a
fierce battle of pocket billiards in the game room which had been Uncle
Baxter's last renovation, and a little too much brandy, I fear.
It was just before I went to bed that I asked Mrs. Blessington if there
had been anyone in this house sin<:e Uncle Baxter died. That had been the
year 1838, almost fifty years ago, and she was already housekeeper then.
"No, my dear," she said quickly, fluffing the feather pillows. "Your
father came that year as you know, but he stayed for no more than a
month or two and then went on home."
"There was never a young man after that ... " I pushed, but in truth
I had little appetite for anything to disturb the happiness I felt. How I
loved the Spartan cleanliness of this bedchamber, the stone walls bare of
paper or ornament, the high luster of the walnut-paneled bed.
"A young man?" She gave an easy, almost hearty laugh as with unerring
certainty of her surroundings, she lifted the poker and stirred the fire.
"What a strange thing for you to ask."
I sat silent .for a moment looking in the mirror, as I took the last of
the pins from my hair. It fell down heavy and warm around my shoulders.
It felt good, like a cloak under which I could hide. But she turned as if
sensing some uneasiness in me, and drew near.
"Why do you say a young man, Miss?" she asked. Slowly, tentatively,
her fingers examined the long tresses that lay over my shoulders. She took
the brush from my hands.
I felt perfectly foolish telling her the story, but I managed a simplified
version, somehow, our meeting unexpectedly a devilishly handsome young
man whom my Father in anger had later called the master of Rampling
Gate.
"Handsome, was he?" she asked as she brushed out the tangles in my
hair gently. It seemed she hung upon every word as I described him again.
"There were no intruders in this house, then, Mrs. Blessington?" I
asked. "No mysteries to be solved ... "
She gave the sweetest laugh.
"Oh, no, darling, this house is the safest place in the world," she said 
3 42 ?
?E)}b!l THE M ASTER OF RAMPLING GATE
quickly. "It is a happy house. No intruder would dare to trouble Rampiing Gate !"
1'-Jothing, in fact, troubled the serenity of the days that followed. The
smoke and noise of London, and our Father's dying words, became a
dream. What was real were our long walks together through the overgrown gardens, our trips in the little skiff to and fro across the lake. We
had tea under the hot glass of the empty conservatory. And early evening
found us on our way upstairs with the best of the books from Uncle
Baxter's library to read by candlelight in the privacy of our rooms.
And all our discreet inquiries in the village met with more or less the
same reply: the villagers loved the house and carried no old or disquieting
tales. Repeatedly, in fact, we were told that Rampling was the most contented hamlet in all England, that no one dared-Mrs. Blessington's very
words-to make trouble here.
"It's our guardian angel, that old house," said the old woman at the
bookshop where Richard stopped for the London papers. "Was there ever
the town of Rampling without the house called Rampling Gate ?"
How were we going to tell them of Father's edict? How were we going
to remind ourselves? But we spoke not one word about the proposed
disaster, and Richard wrote to his firm to say that we should not be back
in London till Fall.
He was finding a wealth of classical material in the old volumes that
had belonged to Uncle Baxter, and I had set up my writing in the little
study that opened off the library which I had all to myself.
Never had I known such peace and quiet. It seemed the atmosphere of
Rampling Gate permeated my simplest written descriptions and wove its
way richly into the plots and characters I created. The Monday after our
arrival I had finished my first short story and went off to the village on
foot to boldly post it to editors of Blackwood's Magazine.
It was glorious morning, and I took my time as I came back on foot.
What had disturbed our father so about this lovely corner of England,
I wondered? What had so darkened his last hours that he laid upon this
spot his curse?
My heart opened to this unearthly stillness, to an undeniable grandeur
that caused me utterly to forget myself. There were times here when I felt
I was a disembodied intellect drifting through a fathomless silence, up
and down garden paths and stone corridors that had witnessed too much
to take cognizance of one small and fragile young woman who in random
moments actually talked aloud to the suits of armour around her, to the
broken statues in the garden, the fountain cherubs who had had not water
to pour from their conches for years and years.
But was there in this loveliness some malignant force that was eluding
us still, some untold story to explain all? Unspeakable horror ... In my
mind's eye I saw that young man, and the strangest sensation crept over 
ANNE RICE ? 343
me, that some enrichment of the picture had taken place in my memory
or imagination in the recent past. Perhaps in dream I had re-invented him,
given a ruddy glow to his lips and his cheeks. Perhaps in my re-creation
for Mrs. Blessington, I had allowed him to raise his hand to that red
cravat and had seen the fingers long and delicate and suggestive of a
musician's hand.
It was all very much on my mind when I entered the house again,
soundlessly, and saw Richard in his favorite leather wing chair by the fire.
The air was warm coming through the open garden doors, and yet
the blaze was cheerful, made the vast room with its towering shelves of
leatherbound volumes appear inviting and almost small.
"Sit down," Richard said gravely, scarcely giving me a glance. "I want
to read you something right now." He held a long narrow ledger in his
hands. "This was Uncle Baxter's,"' he said, "and at first I thought it was
only an account book he kept during the renovations, but I've found some
actual diary entries made in the last weeks of his life. They're hasty,
almost indecipherable, but I've managed to make them out."
"Well, do read them to me," I said, but I felt a little tug of fear. I
didn't want to know anything terrible about this place. If we could have
remained here forever ... but that was out of the question, to be sure.
"Now listen to this," Richard said, turning the page carefully. " 'Fifth
of May, 1 838: He is here, I am sure of it. He is come back again.' And
several days later: 'He thinks this is his house, he does, and he would
drink my wine and smoke my cigars if only he could. He reads my books
and my papers and I will not stand for it. I have given orders that everything is to be locked.' And finally, the last entry written the morning
before he died: 'Weary, weary, unto death and he is no small cause of
my weariness. Last rlight I beheld him with my own eyes. He stood in
this very room. He moves and speaks exactly as a mortal man, and dares
tell me his secrets, and he a demon wretch with the face of a seraph and
I a mere mortal, how am I to bear with him! ' "
"Good Lord," I whispered slowly. I rose from the chair where I had
settled, and standing behind him, read the page for myself. It was the
scrawl, the writing, the very last notation in the book. I knew that Uncle
Baxter's heart had given out. He had not died by violence, but peacefully
enough in this very room with his prayer book in his hand.
"Could it be the very same person Father spoke of that night?" Richard asked.
In spite of the sun pouring through the open doors, I experienced a
violent chill. For the first time I felt wary of this house, wary of our
boldness in coming here, heedful of our Father's words.
"But that was years before, Richard ... " I said. "And what could this
mean, this talk of a supernatural being! Surely the man was mad! It was
no spirit I saw in that railway carriage!" 
344 ?
?).)]¥Jl THE M ASTER OF RAMPLING GATE
I sank down into the chair opposite and tried to quiet the beating of
my heart.
"Julie," Richard said gently, shutting the ledger. "Mrs. Blessington has
lived here contentedly for years. There are six servants asleep every night
in the north wing. Surely there is nothing to all of this."
"It isn't very much fun, though, is it?" I said timidly, "not at all like
swapping ghost stories the way we used to do, and peopling the dark with
imaginary beings, and laughing at friends at school who were afraid."
"All my life," he said, his eyes fixing me steadily, "I've heard tales of
spooks and spirits, some imagined, some supposedly true, and almost
invariably there is some mention of the house in question feeling haunted,
of having an atmosphere to it that fills one with foreboding, some sense
of menace or alarm ... "
"Yes, I know, and there is no such poisonous atmosphere here at all."
"On the contrary, I've never been more at ease i n m y life." He shoved
his hand into his pocket to extract the inevitable match to light his pipe
which had gone out. "As a matter of fact, Julie, I don't know how in the
world I'm going to comply with Father's last wish to tear down this
place."
I nodded sympathetically. The very same thing had been on my mind
since we'd arrived. Even now, I felt so comfortable, natural, quite safe.
I was wishing suddenly, irrationally, that he had not found the entries
in Uncle Baxter's book.
"I should talk to Mrs. Blessington again!" I said almost crossly, "I
mean quite seriously . . . "
"But I have, Julie," he said. "I asked her about it all this morning when
I first made the discovery, and she only laughed. She swears she's never
seen anything unusual here, and that there's no one left alive in the village
who can tell tales of this place. She said again how glad she was that
we'd come home to Rampling Gate. I don't think she has an inkling we
mean to destroy the house. Oh, it would destroy her heart if she did."
"Never seen anything unusual?" I asked. "That is what she said? But
what strange words for her to use, Richard, when she can not see at all."
But he had not heard me. He had laid the ledger aside and risen slowly,
almost sluggishly, and he was wandering out of the double doors into the
little garden and was looking over the high hedge at the oaks that bent
their heavy elbowed limbs almost to the surface of the lake. There wasn't
a sound at this early hour of the day, save the soft rustle of the leaves in
the morning air, the cry now and then of a distant bird.
"Maybe it's gone, Julie," Richard said, over his shoulder, his voice
carrying clearly in the quiet, "if it was ever here. Maybe there is nothing
any longer to frighten anyone at all. You don't suppose you could endure
the winter in this house, do you? I suppose you'd want to be in London
again by then." He seemed quite small against the towering trees, the sky 
ANNE RICE ? 345
broken into small gleaming fragments by the canopy of foliage that gently
filtered the light.
Rampling Gate had him. And I understood perfectly, because it also
had me. I could very well endure the winter here, no matter how bleak
or cold. I never wanted to go horne.
And the immediacy of the mystery only dimmed my sense of everything
and every place else.
After a long moment, I rose andl went out into the garden, and placed
my hand gently on Richard's arm.
"I know this much, Julie," he said just as if we had been talking to
each other all the while. "I swore to Father that I would do as he asked,
and it is tearing me apart. Either way, it will be on my conscience for ever,
obliterating this house or going against my own father and the charge he
laid down to me with his dying breath."
"We must seek help, Richard. The advice of our lawyers, the advice of
Father's clergymen. You must write to them and explain the whole thing.
Father was feverish when he gave the order. If we could lay it out before
them, they would help us decide."
It was three o'clock when I opened my eyes. But I had been awake for a
long time. I had heard the dim chimes of the clock below hour by hour.
And I felt not fear lying here alon<? in the dark but something else. Some
vague and relentless agitation, some sense of emptiness and need that
caused me finally to rise from my bed. What was required to dissolve this
tension, I wondered. I stared at the simplest things in the shadows. The
little arras that hung over the fireplace with its slim princes and princesses
lost in fading fiber and thread. The portrait of an Elizabethan ancestor
gazing with one almond-shaped eye from his small frame.
What was this house, really? Merely a place or a state of mind? What
was it doing to my soul? Why didn't the entries in Uncle Baxter's book
send us flying back to London? Why had we stayed so late in the great
hall together after supper, speaking not a single word?
I felt overwhelmed suddenly, and yet shut out of some great and dazzling secret, and wasn't that the very word that Uncle Baxter had used?
Conscious only of an unbearable restlessness, I pulled on my woollen
wrapper, buttoning the lace collar and tying the sash. And putting on my
slippers, I went out into the hall.
The moon fell full on the oak stairway, and on the deeply recessed door
to Richard's room. On tiptoe I approached and, peering in, saw the bed
was empty, the covers completely undisturbed
So he was off on his own tonight the same as I. Oh, if only he had
come to me, asked me to go with him.
I turned and made my way soundlessly down the long stairs.
The great hall gaped like a cavern before me, the moonlight here and
there touching upon a pair of crossed swords, or a mounted shield. But 
346 ?THE M ASTER OF R AMPLING GATE
far beyond the great hall, in the alcove just outside the library, I saw
unmistakably a flickering light. And a breeze moved briskly through the
room, carrying with it the sound and the scent of a wood fire.
I shuddered with relief. Richard was there. We could talk. Or perhaps
we could go exploring together, guarding our fragile candle flames behind
cupped fingers as we went from room to room? A sense of well-being
pervaded me and quieted me, and yet the dark distance between us seemed
endless, and I was desperate to cross it, hurrying suddenly past the long
supper table with its massive candlesticks, and finally into the alcove before the library doors.
Yes, Richard was there. He sat with his eyes closed, dozing against the
inside of the leather wing chair, the breeze from the garden blowing the
fragile flames of the candles on the stone mantel and on the table at
his side.
I was about to go to him, about to shut the doors, and kiss him gently
and ask did he not want to go up to bed, when quite abruptly I saw in
the corner of my eye that there was some one else in the room.
In the far left corner at the desk stood another figure, looking down at
the clutter of Richard's papers, his pale hands resting on the wood.
I knew that it could not be so. I knew that I must be dreaming, that
nothing in this room, least of all this figure, could be real. For it was
the same young man I had seen fifteen years ago in the railway carriage
and not a single aspect of that taut young face had been changed. There
was the very same hair, thick and lustrous and only carelessly combed
as it hung to the thick collar of his black coat, and the skin so pale it
was almost luminous in the shadows, and those dark eyes looking up
suddenly and fixing me with the most curious expression as I almost
screamed.
We stared at one another across the dark vista of that room, I stranded
in the doorway, he visibly and undeniably shaken that I had caught him
unawares. My heart stopped.
And in a split second he moved towards me, closed the gap between us,
towering over me, those slender white fingers gently closing on my anns.
"Julie!" he whispered, in a voice so low it seemed my own thoughts
speaking to me. But this was no dream. He was real. He was holding to
me and the scream had broken loose from me, deafening, uncontrollable
and echoing from the four walls.
I saw Richard rising from the chair. I was alone. Clutching to the door
frame, I staggered forward, and then again in a moment of perfect clarity
I saw the young intruder, saw him standing in the garden, looking back
over his shoulder, and then he was gone.
I could not stop screaming. I could not stop even as Richard held me
and pleaded with me, and sat me down in the chair.
And I was still crying when Mrs. Blessington finally came. 
ANNE RICE ? 347
She got a glass of cordial for me at once, as Richard begged me once
more to tell what I had seen.
"But you know who it was!" ][ said to Richard almost hysterically.
"It was he, the young man from the train. Only he wore a frockcoat
years out of fashion and his silk tie was open at his throat. Richard,
he was reading your papers, turning them over, reading them in the
pitch dark."
"All right," Richard said, gesturing with his hand up for calm. "He
was standing at the desk. And there was no light there so you could not
see him well."
"Richard, it was he! Don't you understand? He touched me, he held
my arms." I looked imploringly to Mrs. Blessington who was shaking her
head, her little eyes like blue beads in the light. "He called me Julie," I
whispered. "He knows my name !"
I rose, snatching up the candle, and all but pushing Richard out of the
way went to the desk. "Oh, dear God," I said, "Don't you see what's
happened? It's your letters to Dr. Partridge, and Mrs. Sellers, about tearing
down the house !"
Mrs. Blessington gave a little cry and put her hand to her cheek. She
looked like a withered child in her nightcap as she collapsed into the
straight-backed chair by the door.
"Surely you don't believe it was the same man, Julie, after all these
years ... "
"But he had not changed, Richard, not in the smallest detail. There is
no mistake, Richard, it was he, I tell you, the very same."
"Oh, dear, dear ... " Mrs. Blessington whispered, "What will he do if
you try to tear it down? What will he do now?"
"What will who do?" Richard asked carefully, narrowing his eyes. He
took the candle from me and approached her. I was staring at her, only
half realizing what I had heard.
"So you know who he is!" I whispered.
"Julie, stop it!" Richard said.
But her face had tightened, gone blank and her eyes had become distant
and small.
"You knew he was here!" I insisted. "You must tell us at once!"
With an effort she climbed to her feet. "There is nothing in this house
to hurt you," she said, "nor any of us." She turned, spurning Richard as
he tried to help her, and wandered into the dark hallway alone. "You've
no need of me here any longer," she said softly, "and if you should tear
down this house built by your forefathers, then you should do it without
need of me."
"Oh, but we don't mean to do it, Mrs. Blessington !" I insisted. But
she was making her way through the gallery back towards the north
wing. "Go after her, Richard. You heard what she said. She knows
who he is." 
348 @0)
MJ¥JI THE MAST ER 01' RAMPLING GATE
"I've had quite enough of this tonight," Richard said almost angrily.
"Both of us should go up to bed. By the light of day we will dissect this
entire matter and search this house. Now come."
"But he should be told, shouldn't he ?" I demanded.
"Told what? Of whom do you speak!"
"Told that we will not tear down this house !" I said clearly, loudly,
listening to the echo of my own voice.
The next day was indeed the most trying since we had come. It took the
better part of the morning to convince Mrs. Blessington that we had no
intention of tearing down Rampling Gate. Richard posted his letters and
resolved that we should do nothing until help came.
And together we commenced a search of the house. But darkness found
us only half finished, having covered the south tower and the south wing,
and the main portion of house itself. There remained still the north tower,
in a dreadful state of disrepair, and some rooms beneath the ground which
in former times might have served as dungeons and were now sealed off.
And there were closets and private stairways everywhere that we had
scarce looked into, and at times we lost all track of where precisely we
had been.
But it was also quite clear by supper time that Richard was in a state
of strain and exasperation, and that he did not believe that I had seen
anyone in the study at all.
He was further convinced that Uncle Baxter had been mad before he
died, or else his ravings were a code for some mundane happening that
had him extraordinarily overwrought.
But I knew what I had seen. And as the day progressed, I became
ever more quiet and withdrawn. A silence had fallen between me and
Mrs. Blessington. And I understood only too well the anger I'd heard
in my father's voice on that long ago night when we had come home
from Victoria Station and my mother had accused him of imagining
things.
Yet what obsessed me more than anything else was the gentle countenance of the mysterious man I had glimpsed, the dark almost innocent
eyes that had fixed on me for one moment before I had screamed.
"Strange that Mrs. Blessington is not afraid of him," I said in a low
distracted voice, not longer caring if Richard heard me. "And that no one
here seems in fear of him at all ... " The strangest fancies were coming
to me. The careless words of the villagers were running through my head.
"You would be wise to do one very important thing before you retire,"
I said. "Leave out in writing a note to the effect that you do not intend
to tear down the house."
"Julie, you have created an impossible dilemma," Richard demanded.
"You insist we reassure this apparition that the house will not be de-
A NNE RICE ? 349
strayed, when in fact you verify the existence of the very creature that
drove our father to say what he did."
"Oh, I wish I had never come here!" I burst out suddenly.
"Then we should go, both of us,. and decide this matter at home."
"No, that's just it. I could never go without knowing ... 'his secrets' ...
'the demon wretch.' I could never go on living without knowing now!"
Anger must be an excellent antidote to fear, for surely something worked
to alleviate my natural alarm. I did not undress that night, nor even take
off my shoes, but rather sat in that dark hollow bedroom gazing at the
small square of diamond-paned window until I heard all of the house fall
quiet. Richard's door at last closed. There came those distant echoing
booms that meant other bolts had been put in place.
And when the grandfather clock in the great hall chimed the hour of
eleven, Rampling Gate was as usual fast asleep.
I listened for my brother's step in the hall. And when I did not hear
him stir from his room, I wondered at it, that curiosity would not
impel him to come to me, to say that we must go together to discover
the truth.
It was just as well. I did not want him to be with me. And I felt a dark
exultation as I imagined myself going out of the room and down the stairs
as I had the night before. I should wait one more hour, however, to be
certain. I should let the night reach its pitch. Twelve, the witching hour.
My heart was beating too fast at the thought of it, and dreamily I recol-·
lected the face I had seen, the voice that had said my name.
Ah, why did it seem in retrospect so intimate, that we had known each
other, spoken together, that it was someone I recognized in the pit of
my soul?
"What is your name?" I believe [ whispered aloud. And then a spasm
of fear startled me. Would I have the courage to go in search of him, to
open the door to him? Was I losing my mind? Closing my eyes, I rested
my head against the high back of the damask chair.
What was more empty than this rural night? What was more sweet?
I opened my eyes. I had been half dreaming or talking to myself, trying
to explain to Father why it was necessary that we comprehend the reason
ourselves. And I realized, quite fully realized-! think before I was even
awake-that he was standing by the bed.
The door was open. And he was standing there, dressed exactly as he
had been the night before, and his dark eyes were riveted on me with
that same obvious curiosity, his mouth just a little slack like that of a
school boy, and he was holding to the bedpost almost idly with his right
hand. Why, he was lost in contemplating me. He did not seem to know
that I was looking at him.
But when I sat forward, he raised his finger as if to quiet me, and gave
a little nod of his head. 
350 ?THE MASTER OF RAMPLING GATE
"Ah, it is you!" I whispered.
''Yes," he said in the softest, most unobtrusive voice.
But we had been talking to each other, hadn't we, I had been asking
him questions, no, telling him things. And I felt suddenly I was losing my
equilibrium or slipping back into a dream.
No. Rather I had all but caught the fragment of some dream from the
past. That rush of atmosphere that can engulf one at any moment of the
day following when something evokes the universe that absorbed one
utterly in sleep. I mean I heard our voices for an instant, almost in argument, and I saw Father in his top hat and black overcoat rushing alone
through the streets of the West End, peering into one door after another,
and then, rising from the marble-top table in the dim smoky music hall
you ... your face.
"Yes ... "
Go back, Julie! It was Father's voice.
" ... to penetrate the soul of it," I insisted, picking up the lost thread.
But did my lips move? "To understand what it is that frightened him,
enraged him. He said, 'Tear it down!' "
" ... you must never, never, can't do that." His face was stricken, like
that of a schoolboy about to cry.
"No, absolutely, we don't want to, either of us, you know it ... and
you are not a spirit!" I looked at his mud-spattered boots, the faintest
smear of dust on that perfect white cheek.
"A spirit?" he asked almost mournfully, almost bitterly. "Would that
I were."
Mesmerized I watched him come toward me and the room darkened,
and I felt his cool silken hands on my face. I had risen. I was standing
before him, and I looked up into his eyes.
I heard my own heartbeat. I heard it as I had the night before, right at
the moment I had screamed. Dear God, I was talking to him! He was in
my room and I was talking to him! And I was in his arms.
"Real, absolutely real!" I whispered, and a low zinging sensation
coursed through me so that I had to steady myself against the bed.
He was peering at me as if trying to comprehend something terribly
important to him, and he didn't respond. His lips did have a ruddy look
to them, a soft look for all his handsomeness, as if he had never been
kissed. And a slight dizziness had come over me, a slight confusion in
which I was not at all sure that he was even there.
"Oh, but I am," he said softly. I felt his breath against my cheek, and
it was almost sweet. "I am here, and you are with me, Julie .. , "
"Yes ... "
My eyes were closing. Uncle Baxter sat hunched over his desk and I
could hear the furious scratch of his pen. "Demon wretch!" he said to
the night air coming in the open doors. 
ANNE RICE ? 351
"No!" I said. Father turned in the door of the music hall and cried
my name.
"Love me, Julie," came that voice in my ear. I felt his lips against my
neck. "Only a little kiss, Julie, no harm ... " And the core of my being,
that secret place where all desires and all commandments are nurtured,
opened to him without a struggle or a sound. I would have fallen if he
had not held me. My arms closed about him, my hands slipping in the
soft silken mass of his hair.
I was floating, and there was as there had always been at Rampling
Gate an endless peace. It was Rampling Gate I felt around me, it was
that timeless and impenetrable soul that had opened itself at last .... A
power within me of enormous ken . . . To see as a god sees, and take
the depth of things as nimbly as the outward eyes can size and shape
pervade . . . Yes, I whispered aloud, those words from Keats, those
words ... To cease upon the midnight without pain ...
No. In a violent instant we had parted, he drawing back as surely as I.
I went reeling across the bedroom floor and caught hold of the frame
of the window, and rested my forehead against the stone wall.
For a long moment I stood with my eyes closed. There was a tingling
pain in my throat that was almost pleasurable where his lips had touched
me, a delicious throbbing that would not stop.
Then I turned, and I saw all the room clearly, the bed, the fireplace,
the chair. And he stood still exactly as I'd left him and there was the
most appalling distress in his face.
"What have they done to me?" he whispered. "Have they played the
cruelest trick of all?"
"Something of menace, unspeakable menace," I whispered.
"Something ancient, Julie, something that defies understanding, something that can and will go on."
"But why, what are you?" I touched that pulsing pain with the tips of
my fingers and, looking down at them, gasped. "And you suffer so, and
you are so seemingly innocent, and it is as if you can love!"
His face was rent a s i f b y a violent conflict within. And he turned to
go. With my whole will, I stood fast not to follow him, not to beg him
to turn back. But he did turn, bewJildered, struggling and then bent upon
his purpose as he reached for my hand. "Come with me," he said.
He drew me to him ever so gently, and slipping his arm around me
guided me to the door.
Through the long upstairs corridor we passed hurriedly, and through a
small wooden doorway to a screw stairs that I had never seen before.
I soon realized we were ascending the north tower of the house, the
ruined portion of the structure that Richard and I had not investigated
before.
Through one tiny window after another I saw the gently rolling landscape moving out from the forest that surrounded us, and the small cluster 
352 ?
?).:)}!Jl THE MASTER OF R AMPLING G ATE
of dim lights that marked the village of Rampling and the pale streak of
white that was the London road.
Up and up we climbed until we had reached the topmost chamber,
and this he opened with an iron key. He held back the door for me to
enter and I found myself in a spacious room whose high narrow windows contained no glass. A flood of moonlight revealed the most curious mixture of furnishings and objects, the clutter that suggests an attic
and a sort of den. There was a writing table, a great shelf of books,
soft leather chairs and scores of old yellowed and curling maps and
framed pictures affixed to the walls. Candles were everywhere stuck in
the bare stone niches or to the tables and the shelves. Here and there
a barrel served as a table, right alongside the finest old Elizabethan
chair. Wax had dripped over everything, it seemed, and in the very
midst of the clutter lay rumpled copies of the most recent papers, the
Mercure de Paris, the London Times.
There was no place for sleeping in this room.
And when I thought of that, where he must lie when he went to rest,
a shudder passed over me and I felt, quite vividly, his lips touching my
throat again, and I felt the sudden urge to cry.
But he was holding me in his arms, he was kissing my cheeks and my
lips again ever so softly, and then he guided me to a chair. He lighted
the candles about us one by one.
I shuddered, my eyes watering slightly in the light. I saw more unusual
objects: telescopes and magnifying glasses and a violin in its open case,
and a handful of gleaming and exquisitely shaped sea shells. There were
jewels lying about, and a black silk top hat and a walking stick, and a
bouquet of withered flowers, dry as straw, and daguerreotypes and tintypes in their little velvet cases, and opened books.
But I was too distracted now by the sight of him in the light, the gloss
of his large black eyes, and the gleam of his hair. Not even in the railway
station had I seen him so clearly as I did now amid the radiance of the
candles. He broke my heart.
And yet he looked at me as though I were the feast for his eyes, and
he said my name again and I felt the blood rush to my face. But there
seemed a great break suddenly in the passage of time. I had been thinking, yes, what are you, how long have you existed ... And I felt
dizzy again.
I realized that I had risen and I was standing beside him at the window
and he was turning me to look down and the countryside below had
unaccountably changed. The lights of Rampling had been subtracted from
the darkness that lay like a vapor over the land. A great wood, far older
and denser than the forest of Rampling Gate, shrouded the hills, and I
was afraid suddenly, as if I were slipping into a maelstrom from which I
could never, of my own will, return. 
A NNE RICE ? 353
There was that sense of us talking together, talking and talking in low
agitated voices and I was saying that I should not give in.
"Bear witness, that is all I ask of you ... "
And there was in me some dim certainty that by knowledge alone I
should be fatally changed. It was the reading of a forbidden book, the
chanting of a forbidden charm.
"No, only what was," he whispered.
And then even the shape of the land itself eluded me. And the very
room had lost its substance, as if a soundless wind of terrific force had
entered this place and was blowing it apart.
We were riding in a carriage through the night. We had long long ago
left the tower, and it was late afternoon and the sky was the color of
blood. And we rode into a forest whose trees were so high and so thick
that scarcely any sun at all broke to the soft leafstrewn ground.
We had no time to linger in this magical place. We had come to the
open country, to the small patches of tilled earth that surrounded the
ancient village of Knorwood with its gabled roofs and its tiny crooked
streets. We saw the walls of the monastery of Knorwood and the little
church with the bell chiming Vespers under the lowering sky. A great
bustling life resided in Knorwood, a thousand hearts beat in Knorwood,
a thousand voices gave forth their common prayer.
But far beyond the village on the rise above the forest stood the rounded
tower of a truly ancient castle, and to that ruined castle, no more than a
shell of itself anymore, as darkness fell in earnest, we rode. Through its
empty chambers we roamed, impetuous children, the horse and the road
quite forgotten, and to the Lord of the Castle, a gaunt and white-skinned
creature standing before the roaring fire of the roofless hall, we came. He
turned and fixed us with his narrow and glittering eyes. A dead thing he
was, I understood, but he carried within himself a priceless magic. And
my young companion, my innocent young man passed by me into the
Lord's arms. I saw the kiss. I saw the young man grow pale and struggle
to turn away. It was as I had done this very night, beyond this dream, in
my own bedchamber; and from the Lord he retreated, clutching to the
sharp pain in his throat.
I understood. I knew. But the castle was dissolving as surely as anything
in this dream might dissolve, and we were in some damp and close place.
The stench was unbearable to me, it was that most terrible of all
stenches, the stench of death. And I heard my steps on the cobblestones
and I reached to steady myself against the wall. The tiny square was
deserted; the doors and windows gaped open to the vagrant wind. Up
one side and down the other of the crooked street I saw the marks on
the houses. And I knew what the marks meant. The Black Death had
cqme to the village of Knorwood. The Black Death had laid it waste. And
in a moment of suffocating horror I realized that no one, not a single
person, was left alive. 
354 ?
?hlfW' THE MASTER OF RAMPLING GATE
But this was not quite right. There was some one walking in fits and
starts up the narrow alleyway. Staggering he was, almost falling, as he
pushed in one door after another, and at last came to a hot, stinking
place where a child screamed on the floor. Mother and Father lay dead
in the bed. And the great fat cat of the household, unharmed, played
with the screaming infant, whose eyes bulged from its tiny sunken face.
"Stop it," I heard myself gasp. I knew that I was holding my head with
both hands. "Stop it, stop it please!" I was screaming and my screams
would surely pierce the vision and this small crude little room should
collapse around me, and I should rouse the household of Rampling Gate
to me, but I did not. The young man turned and stared at me, and in the
close stinking room, I could not see his face.
But I knew it was he, my companion, and I could smell his fever and
his sickness, and the stink of the dying infant, and see the sleek, gleaming
body of the cat as it pawed at the child's outstretched hand.
"Stop it, you've lost control of it!" I screamed surely with all my
strength, but the infant screamed louder. "Make it stop!"
"I can not ... " he whispered. "It goes on forever! It will never stop!"
And with a great piercing shriek I kicked at the cat and sent it flying
out of the filthy room, overturning the milk pail as it went, jetting like a
witch's familiar over the stones.
Blanched and feverish, the sweat soaking his crude jerkin, my companion took me by the hand. He forced me back out of the house and away
from the crying child and into the street.
Death in the parlor, death in the bedroom, death in the cloister, death
before the high altar, death in the open fields. It seemed the Judgment of
God that a thousand souls had died in the village of Knorwood-I was
sobbing, begging to be released-it seemed the very end of Creation itself.
And at last night came down over the dead village and he was alive
still, stumbling up the slopes, through the forest, toward that rounded
tower where the Lord stood with his hand on the stone frame of the
broken window waiting for him to come.
"Don't go!" I begged him. I ran alongside him crying, but he didn't
hear. Try as I might, I could not affect these things.
The Lord stood over him smiling almost sadly as he watched him fall,
watched the chest heave with its last breaths. Finally the lips moved,
calling out for salvation when it was damnation the Lord offered, when
it was damnation that the Lord would give.
"Yes, damned then, but living, breathing!" the young man cried, rising
in a last spasmodic movement. And the Lord, who had remained still
until that instant, bent to drink.
The kiss again, the lethal kiss, the blood drawn out of the dying body,
and then the Lord lifting the heavy head of the young man to take the
blood back again from the body of the Lord himself.
I was screaming again, Do not, do not drink. He turned and looked at 
ANNE RICE ? 355
me. His face was now so perfectly the visage of death that I couldn't
believe there was animation left in him, yet he asked: What would you
do? Would you go back to Knorwood, would you open those doors one
after another, would you ring the bell in the empty church, and if you
did would the dead rise?
He didn't wait for my answer. And' I had none now to give. He had
turned again to the Lord who waited for him, locked his innocent mouth
to that vein that pulsed with every semblance of life beneath the Lord's
cold and translucent flesh. And the blood jetted into the young body,
vanquishing in one great burst the fever and the sickness that had wracked
it, driving it out with the mortal life.
He stood now in the hall of the Lord alone. Immortality was his and
the blood thirst he would need to sustain it, and that thirst I could feel
with my whole soul. He stared at the broken walls around him, at the
fire licking the blackened stones of the giant fireplace, at the night sky
over the broken roof, throwing out its endless net of stars.
And each and every thing was transfigured in his vision, and in my
vision-the vision he gave now to me-to the exquisite essence of itself.
A wordless and eternal voice spoke from the starry veil of heaven, it sang
in the wind that rushed through the broken timbers; it sighed in the flames
that ate the sooted stones of the hearth.
It was the fathomless rhythm of the universe that played beneath every
surface, as the last living creature--that tiny child-fell silent in the village below.
A soft wind sifted and scattered the soil from the new-turned furrows
in the empty fields. The rain fell from the black and endless sky.
Years and years passed. And all that had been Knorwood melted into
the very earth. The forest sent out its silent sentinels, and mighty trunks
rose where there had been huts and houses, where there had been monastery walls.
Finally nothing of Knorwood remained: not the little cemetery, not the
little church, not even the name of Knorwood lived still in the world. And
it seemed the horror beyond all horrors that no one anymore should know
of a thousand souls who had lived and died in that small and insignificant
village, that not anywhere in the great archives in which all history is
recorded should a mention of that town remain.
Yet one being remained who knew, one being who had witnessed, and
stood now looking down upon the very spot where his mortal life had
ended, he who had scrambled up on his hands and knees from the pit of
Hell that had been that disaster; it was the young man who stood beside
me, the master of Rampling Gate.
And all through the walls of his old house were the stones of the
ruined castle, and all through the ceilings and floors the branches of those
ancient trees.
What was solid and majestic here, and safe within the minds of those 
356
)'') ,--:(
1)'0 t
-- THE MASTER OF RAMPLING G ATE
who slept tonight in the village of Rampling, was only the most fragile
citadel against horror, the house to which he clung now.
A great sorrow swept over me. Somewhere in the drift of images I had
relinquished myself, lost all sense of the point in space from which I saw.
And in a great rush of lights and noise I was enlivened now and made
whole as I had been when we rode together through the forest, only it
was into the world of now, this hour, that we passed. We were flying it
seemed through the rural darkness along the railway toward London
where the nighttime city burst like an enormous bubble in a shower of
laughter, and motion, and glaring light. He was walking with me under
the gas lamps, his face all but shimmering with that same dark innocence,
that same irresistible warmth. And it seemed we were holding tight to
one another in the very midst of a crowd. And the crowd was a living
thing, a writhing thing, and everywhere there came a dark rich aroma
from it, the aroma of fresh blood. Women in white fur and gentlemen in
opera capes swept into the brightly lighted doors of the theater; the blare
of the music hall inundated us, then faded away. Only a thin soprano
voice was left, singing a high, plaintive song. I was in his arms, and his
lips were covering mine, and there came that dull zinging sensation again,
that great uncontrollable opening within myself. Thirst, and the promise
of satiation measured only by the intensity of that thirst. Up stairs we
fled together, into high-ceilinged bedrooms papered in red damask where
the loveliest women reclined on brass bedsteads, and the aroma was so
strong now I could not bear it, and before me they offered themselves,
they opened their arms. "Drink," he whispered, yes, drink. And I felt
the warmth filling me, charging me, blurring my vision, until we broke
again, free and light and invisible it seemed as we moved over the rooftops and down again through rain drenched streets. But the rain did not
touch us; the falling snow did not chill us; we had within ourselves a
great and indissoluble heat. And together in the carriage, we talked to
each other in low, exuberant rushes of language; we were lovers; we were
constant; we were immortal. We were as enduring as Rampling Gate.
I tried to speak; I tried to end the spell. I felt his arms around me and
I knew we were in the tower room together, and some terrible miscalculation had been made.
"Do not leave me," he whispered. "Don't you understand what I am
offering you; I have told you everything; and all the rest is but the weariness, the fever and the fret, those old words from the poem. Kiss me,
Julie, open to me. Against your will I will not take you ... "Again I
heard my own scream. My hands were on his cool white skin, his lips
were gentle yet hungry, his eyes yielding and ever young. Father turned
in the rain-drenched London street and cried out: "Julie!" I saw Richard
lost in the crowd as if searching for some one, his hat shadowing his dark
eyes, his face haggard, old. Old!
I moved away. I was free. And I was crying softly and we were in this 
ANNE RICE ? 357
strange and cluttered tower room. He stood against the backdrop of the
window, against the distant drift of pale clouds. The candle-light glimmered in his eyes. Immense and sad and wise they seemed, and oh, yes,
innocent as I have said again and again. "I revealed myself to them," he
said. "Yes, I told my secret. In rage or bitterness, I know not which, I
made them my dark co-conspirators and always I won. They could not
move against me, and neither will you. But they would triumph still. For
they torment me now with their fairest flower. Don't turn away from me,
Julie. You are mine, Julie, as Rampling Gate is mine. Let me gather the
flower to my heart."
Nights of argument. But finally Richard had come round. He would sign
over to me his share of Rampling Gate, and I should absolutely refuse to
allow the place torn down. There would be nothing he could do then to
obey Father's command. I had given him the legal impediment he needed,
and of course I should leave the house to him and his children. It should
always be in Rampling hands.
A clever solution, it seemed to me, as Father had not told me to destroy
the place, and I had no scruples in the matter now at all.
And what remained was for him to take me to the little train station
and see me off for London, and not worry about me going home to
Mayfair on my own.
"You stay here as long as you wish, and do not worry," I said. I felt
more tenderly towards him than I could ever express. "You knew as soon
as you set foot in the place that Father was all wrong. Uncle Baxter put
it in his mind, undoubtedly, and Mrs. Blessington has always been right.
There is nothing to harm there, Richard. Stay, and work or study as
you please."
The great black engine was roaring past us, the carriages slowing to a
stop. "Must go now, darling, kiss me," I said.
"But what came over you, Julie, what convinced you so quickly ... "
"We've been through all, Richard," I said. "What matters is that we
are all happy, my dear." And we held each other close.
I waved until I couldn't see him anymore. The flickering lamps of the
town were lost in the deep lavender light of the early evening, and the dark
hulk of Rampling Gate appeared for one uncertain moment like the ghost
of itself on the nearby rise.
I sat back and closed my eyes. Then I opened them slowly, savoring
this moment for which I had waited too long.
He was smiling, seated there as he had been all along, in the far corner
of the leather seat opposite, and now he rose with a swift, almost delicate
movement and sat beside me and enfolded me in his arms.
"It's five hours to London," he whispered in my ear.
"I can wait," I said, feeling the thirst like a fever as I held tight to him,
feeling his lips against my eyelids and my hair. "I want to hunt the London 
358
:) ?
\]? ,_ THE M ASTER OF RAMPLING G ATE
streets tonight," I confessed, a little shyly, but I saw only approbation in
his eyes.
"Beautiful Julie, my Julie ... " he whispered.
"You'll love the house in Mayfair," I said.
"Yes ... " he said.
"And when Richard finally tires of Rampling Gate, we shall go home." 
EDWARD BRYANT
(b. 1945)
Born and raised in Wyoming, Edward Bryant received his college education at the University of Wyoming. That state is the setting for several of
his short stories, collected as Wyoming Sun (1 980).
Bryant has written primarily short stories, beginning with ''They Come
Only in Dreams" (1 970). His first collection of short stories, Among the
Dead and Other Events Leading up to the Apocalypse, was published in
1973, and his second, Cinnabar, in 1 976-the latter being a collection of
related short works about a future California city. His work is complex
and sometimes dark, as illustrated by the story "Shark" (1 973), in which
an unhappy young woman wants to have her brain transplanted into a
shark. His novels include The Man of the Future (1 990), The Cutter
(1 988), Fetish (1 991), and The Thermals of August (1 992). He is a contributor to the Wild Cards series of superhero shared-universe novels;
edited the anthology 2076: The American Tricentennial (1 977); and is
one of the regular book reviewers for Locus magazine. Bryant sometimes
writes under the pseudonym Lawrence Talbot.
"Good Kids" is a cocky tale of streetwise children old beyond their
years. The children's snappy dialogue is suave and fluent and sounds authentic. The story's climax is at once surprising, bloody, and satisfying.
A pleasant surprise tucked into the text that follows is just how much,
and how deftly, Bryant has borrowed from the story of the king vampire,
Stoker's Dracula. 
GOOD KIDS
"T hat blood?" said Donnie, appalled. "That's grossss."
Angelique was peeking over her shoulder at the lurid paperback vampire
novel. "Don't draw out your consonants. You sound like a geek."
"I'm not a geek," said Donnie. "I'm only eleven years old, you jerk. I
get to draw out my esses if I want to."
"We're all too goddamned bright," said Camelia gloomily. "The last
place I went to school, everybody j ust played with dolls or talked all day
about crack."
"Public schools," Angelique snorted.
Donnie flipped the page and squinted. "Yep, he's lapping up her menstrual blood, all right. This vampire's a real gink."
"Wonderful. So her arching, lily-white swan throat wasn't enough,"
said Cammie. "Oh boy. I can hardly wait till I start having my period."
The lights flashed and the four of us involuntarily glanced up. Ms.
Yukoshi, one of the Center's three night supervisors, stood framed in the
doorway. "Okay, girls, lights out in three. Put away the book. Hit those
bunks. Good night, now." She started to exit, but then apparently changed
her mind. "I suppose I ought to mention that this is my last night taking
care of you."
Were we supposed to clap? I wondered. Maybe give her a four-part
harmony chorus of "Thank you, Ms. Yukoshi"? What was appropriate
behavior?
"No thanks are necessary," said Ms. Yukoshi. "I just know I need a
long, long vacation. Lots of R and R." We could all see her sharp, white
teeth gleaming in the light from the overhead. "You'll have a new person
to bedevil tomorrow night. His name is Mr. Vladisov."
"So why don't we ever get a good WASP?" Cammie whispered.
The other two giggled. I guess I did too. It's easy to forget that Camelia
is black.
Ms. Yukoshi looked at us sharply. Donnie giggled again and dog-eared
a page before setting the vampire book down. "Good night, girls." Ms.
Yukoshi retreated into the hall. We listened to the click and echo of her
stylish heels moving on to the next room, the next island of kids. Boys
in that one.
"I wonder what Mr. Vladisov will be like," Donnie said.
Angelique smiled. "At least he's a guy."
"Good night, girls." Donnie mimicked Ms. Yukoshi.
I snapped off the lamp. And that was it for another fun evening at the
renovated brownstone that was the Work-at-Night Child Care Center and 
EDWARD B RYANT ? 361
Parenting Service. Wick Pus, we ,called it, all of us who had night-shift
parents with no other place to put their kids.
"Good night," I said to everybody in general. I lay back in the bunk
and pulled the covers up to my chin. The wool blanket scratched my neck.
"I'm hungry," said Angelique plaintively. "Cookies and milk aren't
enough."
"Perhaps you want some bloooocl?" said Donnie, snickering.
"Good night," I said again. But I was hungry too.
The next day was Wednesday. Hump clay. Didn't matter. No big plans
for the week-or for the weekend. It wasn't one of the court-set times
for my dad to visit, so I figured probably I'd be spending the time reading.
That was okay too. I like to read .. Maybe I'd finish the last thousand
pages of Stephen King's new novel and get on to some of the stuff J
needed to read for school.
We were studying urban legends and old wives' tales-a side issue was
the class figuring out a nonsexist term for the latter.
We'd gone through a lot of the stuff that most of us had heard-and
even believed at one time-like the hook killer and the Kentucky Fried
Rat and the expensive car that was on sale unbelievably cheap because
nobody could get the smell out of the upholstery after the former owner
killed himself and the body wasn't discovered for three hot days. Then
there was the rattlesnake in the K--Mart jeans and the killer spiders in the
bouffant. Most of that didn't interest me. What I liked were the older
myths, things like keeping cats out of the nursery and forbidding adults
to sleep in the presence of children.
Now I've always liked cats, so I know where my sympathy lies with
that one. Kitties love to snuggle up to warm little faces on chilly nights.
No surprise, right? But the bit about sucking the breath from babies'
lungs is a load of crap. Well, most of the time. As for the idea that adults
syphon energy from children, that's probably just a cleaner way of talking
about the incest taboo.
It's a way of speaking metaphorically. That's what the teacher said.
I can see why adults would want to steal kids' energy. Then they could
rule the world, live forever, win all the Olympics. See what I mean? So
maybe some adults do. You ever feel just how much energy is generated
by a roomful of hyper kids? I know. But then, I'm a kid. I expect I'll lose
it all when I grow up. I'm not looking forward to that. It'll be like death.
Or maybe undeath.
It all sounds sort of dull gray and drab, just like living in the book 1 984.
The thing about energy is thalt what goes out has to come in first.
Another lesson. First Law of Thermodynamics. Or maybe the Second. I
didn't pay much attention that day. I guess I was too busy daydreaming
about horses, or maybe sneaking a few pages of the paperback hidden in
my vinyl binder. 
3 62
Don't even ask what I'm going to do when I grow up. I've got lots of
time to figure it out.
Mr. Vladisov had done his homework. He addressed us all by name.
Evidently he'd sucked Ms. Yukoshi dry of all the necessary information.
"And you would be Shauna-Laurel Andersen," he said to me, smiling
faintly.
I felt like I ought to curtsy at least. Mr. Vladisov was tall and courtly,
just like characters in any number of books I'd read. His hair was jetblack and fixed in one of those widow's peaks. Just like a novel. His eyes
were sharp and black too, though the whites were all bloodshot. They
didn't look comfortable. He spoke with some kind of Slavic accent. Good
English, but the kind of accent I've heard actors working in restaurants
goofing around with.
Shauna-Laurel, I thought. "My friends call me SL," I said.
"Then I hope we shall be friends," said Mr. Vladisov.
"Do we have to call you 'sir'?" said Angelique. I knew she was just
being funny. I wondered if Mr. Vladisov knew that.
"No." His gaze flickered from one of us to the next. "I know we shall
all be very close. Ms. Yukoshi told me you were all ... "he seemed to
be searching for the correct phrase. ". . . good kids."
"Sure," said Donnie, giggling just a little.
"I believe," said Mr. Vladisov, "that it is customary to devour milk
and cookies before your bedtime."
"Oh, that's not for a while yet," said Angelique.
"Hours," chimed in Donnie.
Our new guardian consulted his watch. "Perhaps twenty-three
minutes?"
We slowly nodded.
"SL," he said to me, "will you help me distribute the snacks?"
I followed Mr. Vladisov out the door.
"Be careful," said Angelique so softly that only I could hear. I wondered
if I really knew what she meant.
Mr. Vladisov preceded me down the corridor leading to the playroom
and then to the adjacent kitchenette. Other inmates looked at us through
the doorways as we passed. I didn't know most of their names. There were
about three dozen of them. Our crowd?the four of us-was pretty tight.
He slowed so I could catch up to his side. "Your friends seem very
nice," he said. "Well behaved."
"Uh, yes," I answered. "They're great. Smart too."
"And healthy."
"As horses."
"My carriage," mused Mr. Vladisov, "used to be pulled by a fine
black team."
"Beg pardon?" 
EDWARD BRYANT ? 363
"Nothing," he said sharply. His tone moderated. "I sometimes slip into
the past, SL. It's nothing."
"Me," I said. "I love horses. My dad says he'll get me a colt for my
graduation from middle school. We'll have to stable it out in Long
Island."
Mr. Vladisov didn't comment. We had reached the closetlike kitchenette. He didn't bother to turn on the light. When he opened the refrigerator and took out a carton of milk, l could see well enough to open the
cabinet where I knew the cookies were stored.
"Chocolate chip?" l said. "Double Stuf Oreos?"
Mr. Vladisov said, "I never eat ... cookies. Choose what you like."
I took both packages. Mr. Vladisov hovered over the milk, assembling quartets of napkins and glasses. "Don't bother with a straw for
Donnie," I said. "She's not supposed to drink through a straw. Doctor's orders."
Mr. Vladisov nodded. "Do these things help you sleep more soundly?"
I shrugged. "I 'spose so. The nurse told me once that a high-carb snack
before bed would drug us out. h's okay. Cookies taste better than Ritalin anyway."
"Ritalin?"
"An upper that works like a downer for the hypers."
"I beg your pardon?"
I decided to drop it. "The cookies help us all sleep."
" Good," said Mr. Vladisov. "I want everyone to have a good night's
rest. I take my responsibility here quite seriously. It would be unfortunate
were anyone to be so disturbed she woke up in the early morning with
nightmares."
"We all sleep very soundly," 1 said.
Mr. Vladisov smiled down at me. In the dim light from the hall, it
seemed to me that his eyes gleamed a dusky red.
I passed around the Double Stuf Oreos and the chocolate-chip cookies.
Mr. Vladisov poured and distributed the glasses of milk as solemnly as if
he were setting out communion wine.
Cammie held up her milk in a toast. "We enjoyed Ms. Yukoshi, but
we know we'll like you much betlter."
Mr. Vladisov smiled without parting his teeth and raised an empty hand
as though holding a wine glass. "A toast to you as well. To life everlasting,
and to the dreams which make it bearable."
Angelique and I exchanged glances. I looked at Donnie. Her face was
saying nothing at all. We all raised our glasses and then drank. The
milk was cold and good, but it wasn't the taste I wished. I wanted
chocolate.
Mr. Vladisov wished us a more conventional good night, then smoothly 
364
excused himself from the room to see to his other charges. We listened
hard but couldn't hear his heels click on the hallway tile.
"Slick," said Angelique, nibbling delicately around the edge of her chocolate-chip cookie.
"Who's he remind me of?" mused Cammie. "That old guy-I saw him
in a play once. Frank Langella."
"I don't know about this," said Donnie.
"What don't you know?" I said.
"I don't know whether maybe one of us ought to stay up all night on
watch." Her words came out slowly. Then more eagerly, "Maybe we
could take turns."
"We all need our rest," I said. "It's a school night."
"I sure need all the energy I can get," said Cammie. "I've got a geography test tomorrow. We're supposed to know all the capitals of those
weird little states west of New Jersey."
I said, "I don't think we have anything to worry about for a while.
Mr. Vladisov's new. It'll take him a little while to settle in and get used
to us."
Cammie cocked her head. "So you think we got ourselves a live one ?"
"So to speak." I nodded. "Metaphorically speaking ... "
So I was wrong. Not about what Mr. Vladisov was. Rather that he would
wait to get accustomed to how things ran at Wick Pus. He must have
been very hungry.
In the morning, it took Donnie forever to get up. She groaned when
Cammie shook her, but didn't seem to want to move. "I feel shitty," she
said, when her eyes finally opened and started to focus. "I think I've got
the flu."
"Only if bats got viruses in their spit," said Cammie grimly. She gestured at Donnie's neck, gingerly zeroing in with her index finger.
Angelique and I leaned forward, inspecting the throat.
Donnie's brown eyes widened in alarm. "What's wrong?" she said
weakly.
"What's wrong ain't pimples," said Cammie. "And there's two of
them."
"Damn," said Angelique.
"Shit," said Donnie.
I disagreed with nobody.
The four of us agreed to try not to get too upset about all of this until
we'd had time to confer tonight after our parents dropped us off at the
Center. Donnie was the hardest to convince. But then, it was her throat
that showed the pair of matched red marks.
Mrs. Maloney was the morning shift lady who saw us off to our 
EDWARD B RYANT 365
various buses and subways to school. Mr. Vladisov had gone off duty
sometime before dawn. Naturally .. He would return after dark. Double naturally.
"I'm gonna tell my mom I don't want to come back to the Center
tonight," Donnie had said.
"Don't be such a little kid," said Cammie. "We'll take care of things."
"It'll be all right," Angelique chimed in.
Donnie looked at me as though begging silently for permission to
chicken out. "SL?"
"It'll be okay," I said as reassuringly as I could. I wasn't so sure it
would be that okay. Why was everyone staring at me as though I were
the leader?
"I trust you," Donnie said softly.
I knew I was blushing. "It'll be all right." I wished I knew whether I
was telling the truth.
At school, I couldn't concentrate. I didn't even sneak reads from my
Stephen King paperback. I guess I sort of just sat there like a wooden
dummy while lessons were talked about and assignments handed out.
I started waking up in the afternoon during my folklore class.
"The thing you should all remember," said Mrs. Dancey, my teacher,
"is that myths never really change. Sometimes they're garbled and they
certainly appear in different guises to different generations who recount
them. But the basic lessons don't alter. We're talking about truths."
The truth was, I thought, I didn't know what we were all going to
do about Mr. Vladisov. That was the long and short of it, and no
urban myth Mrs. Dancey tempted me with was going to take my mind
off that.
Time. Things like Mr. Vladisov, they figured they had all the time in
the world, so they usually seemed to take things easy. Given time, we'd
figure something out. Cammie, Donnie, Angelique, and me. We could
handle anything. Always had.
"Shauna-Laurel?" It was Mrs. Dancey. Talking to me.
I didn't know what she had asked. "Ma'am?" I said. "Sorry."
But it was too late. I'd lost my chance. Too much daydreaming. I hoped
it wouldn't be too late tonight.
Donnie's twin red marks had started to fade when the four of us huddled
in our room at the Center to talk.
"So maybe they are zits," said Cammie hopefully.
Donnie irritably scratched at them. "They itch."
I sat on the edge of the bunk and swung my legs back and forth. "Don't
scratch. They'll get infected."
"You sound like my mother." 
366 ?
\\.Dl£11 Gooo Kms
"Good evening, my good kids." Mr. Vladisov filled the doorway. He
was all dark clothing and angular shadows. "I hope you are all feeling
well tonight?"
"Aren't you a little early?" said Angelique.
Mr. Vladisov made a show of consulting his watch. It was the oldfashioned kind, round and gold, on a chain. It had hands. I glanced out
the window toward the street. The light had gone while we were talking.
I wondered where Mr. Vladisov spent his days.
"Early? No. Perhaps just a bit," he corrected himself. "I find my position here at the Center so pleasant, I don't wish to be late." He smiled
at us. We stared back at him. "What? You're not all glad to see me?"
"I have the flu," said Donnie dully.
"The rest of us will probably get it too," Angelique said.
Cammie and I nodded agreement.
"Oh, I'm sorry," said Mr. Vladisov. "I see why this should trouble you.
Perhaps I can obtain for you an elixir?"
"Huh?" That was Cammie.
"For your blood," he said. "Something to strengthen your resistance.
Tomato juice, perhaps? or V-8? Some other healthful beverage?"
"No," said Donnie. "No thank you. I don't think so. No." She
hiccupped.
"Oh, you poor child." Mr. Vladisov started forward. Donnie drew
back. "Is there something I can do?" he said, checking himself in
midstride. "Perhaps I should call for a doctor?" His voice sounded so
solicitous. "Your parent?"
"No!" Donnie came close to shouting.
"She'll be okay," said Cammie.
Mr. Vladisov looked indecisive. "I don't know ... "
"We do," I said. "Everything will be fine. Donnie j ust needs a good
night's sleep."
"I'm sure she will get that," said Mr. Vladisov. "The night is quiet."
Then he excused himself to fetch our milk and cookies. This time he
didn't ask for volunteer help.
Cammie was stroking Donnie's hair. "We'll see nothin' happens. You'll
be j ust fine."
"That's right," said Angelique. "We'll all stay up."
"No need," I said. "We can take turns. No use everybody killing
themselves."
"Bad phrasing," said Cammie. "Taking turns sounds good to me."
I volunteered, "I'll take the first watch."
"Yeah." Cammie grinned. "That way the rest of us got to stay up in
the scariest part of the night."
"Okay, so you go first and wake me up later."
"Naw, Just kidding." 
EDWARD BRYANT ? 367
I liked being friends with Cammie and the others. But then we were so
much alike. More than you might think.
The daughter of a widowed Harlem mortician.
The daughter of the divorced assistant French consul.
The daughter of an ambitious off-Broadway director.
The daughter of a divorced famous novelist.
All of us denied latchkeys and dumped at Wick Pus. Handier than
boarding school if a parent wanted us. But still out of their hair.
One of us used to love drugs. One of us was thinking about loving
God. Another was afraid of being the baby of the group. And another
just wanted peace and a horse. I smiled.
Donnie actually did look reassured.
After a while, Mr. Vladisov came back with our nightly snacks. He
seemed less exuberant. Maybe he was catching on to the fact that we
were on to him. Maybe not. It's hard to tell with adults.
At any rate, he bid us all a good evening and that was the last we saw
of him until he came around to deliver a soft, "Lights out, girls. Sleep
well. Sleep well, indeed."
We lisrened for his footsteps, didn't hear any, heard him repeating
his message to the boys down the hall. Finally we started to relax just
a little.
Through the darkness, Cammie whispered, "Three hours, SL. That's it.
Don't knock yourself out, okay? 'Wake me up in three hours."
"Okay."
I heard Donnie's younger, softer whisper. "Thanks, guys. I'm glad
you're all here. I'm even going to try to sleep."
"Want a ghost story first?" That was Angelique.
"No!" Donnie giggled.
We were all silent.
I listened for steady, regular breathing. I waited for anything strange. I
eventually heard the sounds of the others sleeping.
I guess I really hadn't expected them to drift off like that.
And then I went to sleep.
I hadn't expected that either.
I woke up sweaty, dreaming someone was slapping me with big slabs of
lunch meat. Someone was slapping me. Cammie.
"Wake up, you gink! She's gone!"
"Who's gone ?" The lamp was on and I tried to focus on Cammie's
angry face.
"Donnie! The honky bloodsucker stole her. "
I struggled free of the tangled sheet. I didn't remember lying down in
my bed. The last thing I recalled was sitting bolt upright, listening for
anything that sounded like Mr. Vladisov skulking around. "I think hehe put me to sleep." I felt terrible. 
368
/ ?':) '-;'(
I )\) ( \,.... Gooo Kms
"He put us all to sleep," said Angelique. "No time to worry about that.
We've got to find Donnie before he drains her down to those cute little
slippers." Donnie had been wearing a pair of plush Felix the Cat foot
warmers.
"Where we gonna look?" Cammie looked about ready to pull Mr.
Vladisov apart with her bare fingers with their crimson painted nails.
"Follow running blood downhill," I said.
".Jeez," Cammie said disgustedly.
"I mean it. Try the basement. I bet he's got his coffin down there."
"Traditionalist, huh?"
"Maybe. I hope so." I pulled on one Adidas, wound the laces around
my ankle, reached for the other. "What time is it, anyway?"
"Not quite midnight. Sucker didn't even wait for the witching hour."
I stood up. "Come on."
"What about the others?" Angelique paused by the door to the hall.
I quickly thought about that. We'd always been pretty self-sufficient.
But this wasn't your ordinary situation. "Wake 'em up," I said. "We can
use the help." Cammie started for the door. "But be quiet. Don't wake
up the supervisors."
On the way to the door, I grabbed two Oreos I'd saved from my
bedtime snack. I figured I'd need the energy.
I realized there were thirty or thirty-five kids trailing just behind as my
roommates and I found one of Donnie's Felix slippers on the landing in
the fire stairs. It was j ust before the final flight down to the dark rooms
where the furnace and all the pipes were. The white eyes stared up at me.
The whiskers didn't twitch.
"Okay," I said unnecessarily, "come on. Hurry!"
Both of them were in a storage room, j ust up the corridor from the
place where the furnace roared like some giant dinosaur. Mr. Vladisov
sat on a case of toilet paper. It was like he was waiting for us. He expected
us. He sat there with Donnie cradled in his arms and was already looking
up at the doorway when we burst through.
"SL ... " Donnie's voice was weak. She tried to reach out toward me,
but Mr. Vladisov held her tightly. "I don't want to be here."
"Me neither," muttered Cammie from beside me.
"Ah, my good kids," said Mr. Vladisov. "My lambs, my fat little calves.
I am sorry that you found me."
It didn't sound like he was sorry. I had the feeling he'd expected it,
maybe even wanted it to happen. I began to wonder if this one was totally
crazy. A psychotic. "Let Donnie go," I said, trying for a firmness I don't
think was really showing in my voice.
"No." That was simple enough.
"Let her go," I repeated.
"I'm not ... done," he said, baring his fangs in a jolly grin. 
EDWARD B RYANT ? 369
I said, "Please ?"
"You really don't understand." Mr. Vladisov sighed theatrically. "There
are two dozen or more of you and only one of me; but I am a man of
some power. When I finish snacking on this one, I will kill most of the
rest of you. Perhaps all. I'll kill you and I will drink you."
"Horseshit," said Cammie.
"You will be first," said Mr. Vladisov, "after your friend." He stared
directly at me, his eyes shining like rubies.
"Get fucked." I surprised myself by saying that. I don't usually talk
that way.
Mr. Vladisov looked shocked. "Shauna-Laurel, my dear, you are not a
child of my generation."
I definitely wasn't. "Let. Her. Loose," I said distinctly.
"Don't be tiresome, my child. :?ow be patient. I'll be with you in just
a moment." He lowered his mouth toward Donnie's throat.
"You're dead," I told him.
He paused, smiling horribly. "No news to me."
"I mean really dead. For keeps."
"I doubt that. Others have tried. Rather more mature specimens than
all of you." He returned his attention to Donnie's neck.
Though I didn't turn away from Mr. Vladisov, I sensed the presence of
the other kids behind me. We had all crowded into the storage room, and
now the thirty-odd of us spread in a sort of semicircle. If Mr. Vladisov
wondered why none of us was trying to run away, he didn't show it. I
guess maybe like most adults, he figured he controlled us all.
I took Cammie's hand with my right, Angelique's with my left. All our
fingers felt very warm. I could sense us starting to relax into that fuzzyfeeling receptive state that we usually only feel when we're asleep. I knew
we were teaming up with the other kids in the room.
It's funny sometimes about old folktales (we'd finally come up in class
with a nonsexist term). Like the one forbidding adults to sleep in the
same room with a child. They had it right. They just had it backwards.
It's us who suck up the energy like batteries charging ...
Mr. Vladisov must have felt it start. He hesitated, teeth j ust a little
ways from Donnie's skin. He looked at us from the corners of his eyes
without raising his head. "I feel ... " he started to say, and then trailed
off. "You're taking something. You're feeding-"
"Let her go." I shouldn't even have said that. It was too late for making bargains.
"My ... blood?" Mr. Vladisov whispered.
"Don't be gross," said Cammie.
I thought I could see Donnie smile wanly.
"I'm sorry," said Angelique. "I thought you were going to work out
okay. We wouldn't have taken much. Just enough. You wouldn't have 
3 70 ?
?)1)¥-JI Gooo Kms
suspected a thing. Finally you would have moved on and someone else
would have taken your place."
Mr. Vladisov didn't look well. "Perhaps-" he started to say. He looked
like he was struggling against quicksand. Weakly.
"No," I said. "Not on your life."
And then we fed. 
LAuRA ANNE GILMAN
(b. 1967)
Born and raised in New Jersey, Laura Anne Gilman received her bachelor's degree from Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, and then went
into publishing. She has worked in the science fiction and mystery genres
for the past decade as an editor lor variety of talented writers, ranging
from award-winning mystery author Dana L. Stabenow to cyberpunk
writer Wilhelmina Baird.
Gilman's short fiction has varied widely within the fantasy/science fiction genres, from a quiet but charming character study in The Day the
Magic Stopped (1 995) to an intense story about love and magic in Lammas Night (1 995) to a hilarious look at artificial intelligence in Don't
Forget Your Spacesuit, Dear (1 996) to a straightforward adventure tale
involving a telepath in Highwaymen: Robbers and Rogues (1 997). Gilman
also co-edited a critically acclaimed alternate were-creature anthology entitled OtherWere: Stories of Transformation with Keith R. A. DeCandido
(1 996).
"Exposure, " written for an anthology called Blood Muse (1 995), is a
very modern vampire tale. In it, the vampire, a professional photographer
whose daily work involves him in decisions about light and dark, faces a
challenge unique to his situation. Despite the story's whimsical tone, the
serious nature of Westin's artistic problem is never lost sight of in the
story. Anyone who has ever taken photography seriously will feel for him. 
EXPOSURE
'
The timer clicked, a cicada in the dark. Lifting the tongs off their
rest, he swirled the paper gently; watching, deeming Good to go by the
rules, better to work by instinct. Finally deeming it complete, he lifted the
sheet out of its bath, placing it in another shallow tub and turning the
water on, cold, over it.
The music played, one cd after another, continuous shuffle so that he
never knew what would come up next: Melissa Etheridge, Vivaldi, the exotic
noises of a rain forest. It suited his mood, prepped him for the evening's
work. For now the lilting strains of The Four Seasons kept him company.
Tugging at his ear where it itched, he studied the image floating face-up
at him. Satisfied, he lifted it between two fingertips, shaking some of the
wetness off. Turning off the water, he transferred the print to his right
hand and reached out to flick the toggle switch on the wall next to the
room's exit. Stepping into the revolving door, he pushed the heavy plastic
with one shoulder and emerged from the darkroom.
Blinking in the sudden fluorescent lighting, he cast a glance over his
shoulder to make sure that the warning light had gone off, then carried
the print over to the line strung across the far end of the studio. Clipping
it to the line, he stepped back to examine the other prints already there.
Several, most notably the three shots of the hookers talking over coffee,
leaning intently across the table to get in each other's faces, pleased him.
Others were less successful, but overall he was satisfied. Checking his
watch once again, he took off the stained apron he wore, hung it on a
hook beside the door, shut off the stereo, and went to take a shower.
Time to go to work.
"Hey, Westin!"
He slung the bag more comfortably over his shoulder, and stopped to
wait for the overweight Latino cop who chugged up alongside him.
"Going out again tonight, huh?"
"As I've done every night this week," Westin replied. "And the week
before that."
"But not the week before that," the cop said.
"But the entire month before that I didn't miss a single night. So why
are you asking now?"
The cop ignored the slight edge to Westin's voice. "There's some weirdo
out there, past few nights. Scared the hell out of a couple slits Tuesday, cut
into their business too. Guy's wearing Pampers and some kinda bonnet,
according to reports. If you happen to run into him "
"I should take his picture for your album?" 
LAURA ANNE GiLMAN ? 3 73
"The brass'd be thankful. And ya gotta know the Post'd pay for that
picture. Anyway, keep your eyes out."
"I always do," Westin said, hollding up his camera. He watched with
detached affection as the cop loped back to his post, holding up a wall
in the upper hall of the Port Authority. Swaddling and a bonnet. That
was a new one. He could certainly understand johns keeping away, but
why were the hookers afraid of him? Westin thought briefly about following up on it, then put those thoughts away. If he came into the viewfinder,
then would be the time to wonder. For now, there was the rent to pay.
He stepped into the men's room to moisten his contact lenses, darkened
to protect his hypersensitive eyes. Another thing to bless technology for.
Even he couldn't take photographs through sunglasses.
Leaving the bustling noise of the terminal, he exited into the sharp cold
night of Eighth Avenue and paused. Where to go? Where were the pictures, the images waiting for him to capture? He turned in a slow halfcircle, ignoring the line of dinner-hour cabs waiting in front of him, letting
his instinct pick a direction. There .. The hot white lights were calling him.
Walking briskly, he cut crosstown, one hand on his camera, the other
hanging loosely by his side. The sidewalk hustlers and gutter sharks
watched him pass, recognizing a stronger predator. But the hookers, ah,
the hookers were another story. They swarmed to him, offered him deals,
enticements. He did love women so, their softness hiding such strong,
willful blood. But he was not feeding tonight. At least, not of that. Tonight
was for a different passion. Bypassing Times Square itself, he wandered
the side streets, catching the occasional sideways stare from well-dressed
theatergoers on their way from dinner to their entertainment. Only the
expensive Konica hanging by his side kept them from assuming he was a
panhandler. The long trench had seen better decades, and not even the
Salvation Army had been able to find anything nice to say about his boots
except for the fact that they had once been sturdy. And the less said about
his once-white turtleneck, the better. But he preferred these clothes, using
them the same way wildlife photographers hid within camouflaged blinds.
He was stalking wildlife as well, a form that was more easily spooked
than any herd of gazelles or a solitary fox.
For the next seven hours he took shot after shot of the ebb and flow
of humanity around him, occasionally moving to a new spot when people
became too aware of him or, more accurately, of the camera. His choices
satisfied him. The elderly woman in rags stepping over a crack in the
sidewalk with graceful poise. The businesswoman striding along, topcoat
open to the bracing wind. Two too-young figures doing a deal with brazen
indifference to the mounted policeman just yards away, and the cop's
equal indifference to their infractions. The hooker holding a Styrofoam
cup in her hands, allowing the steam to rise to her face, taking delicate
sips. He loved them all, carefully, surreptitiously, with each click of the
shutter, every zoom of the lens to catch their expressions, the curve of 
3 74 ?
?)}.)¥-JI EXPOSURE
their hands, the play of neon across their skin. He could feel the beat
of their blood, pulling him all unwilling, and he blessed the cold which
kept their scents from him. He couldn't afford the distractions.
Stopping in a Dunkin' Donuts to pick up a cup of coffee, he dug in his
trench pocket for a crumpled dollar bill to pay for it. "Why can't you
carry a wallet?" he could hear Sasha complain. "That way when someone
finally puts you out of your misery I'll know to collect the body." Lovely,
long-suffering Sasha. But she forgot her complaints when he had a show
ready for her pale white walls, secure in her status as Michael Westin's
only gallery. For three long, hungry years she had supported him, and for
the last eleven he had returned the favor. He understood obligation, and
needing, and the paying of debts.
Finally he came to the last roll of film he had prepared for the night.
He took it out of the pouch hanging from his belt and looked at it, black
plastic against the black of his thin leather gloves. High-speed black and
white, perfect for catching moments silhouetted against the darkness, sudden bursts of light and action. His trademark. One roll left. He still had
time to shoot this roll before heading home, still subjects to capture.
Or he could try again, a little voice whispered inside his head. There
was time.
Shaking his head to silence the unwanted voice, he removed the used
film from the camera, marked it with the date, location, and an identifying
number, then replaced it in the pouch. Still the unused film sat in his
palm. He could reload the camera, finish the evening out. Or he could
save it for the next trip, cutting the session short and going home. At the
thought his lips curled in a faint smile. Home to where Danielle slept in
their bed, her hair fanned out against the flannel sheets. She would be
surprised to see him, surprised and pleased, if he knew his Dani.
Or you could try again.
"Damnit, enough!" He would be a fool to listen to that voice, a fool
to even consider it. Hadn't the three attempts been enough to teach him
that? If the third time wasn't a charm, then certainly the fourth was for
fools. And his kind didn't survive by being fools.
But still the thought lingered, caressing his ego, his artist's conceit. He
could picture the shot, frame it perfectly in his mind. The conditions were
ideal tonight, the location tailor-made. It would be the perfect finish to
this show, the final page of the book he knew Sasha would want to do.
Stuffing the thought back into the darkness of his mind, he deftly inserted the black cartridge, advancing the shutter until the camera was
primed. He cast one practiced eye skyward. Four A.M., give or take fifteen
minutes. He had another hour, at most, before he would have to head
home, wrap his head under a pillow, and get the few hours of sleep he
still required before locking himself in the darkroom to develop this
night's work. Then dinner with Dani, and perhaps he would take tomorrow night off. Fridays were too busy to get really good photos. Better to 
LAURA ANNE GiLMAN ? 3 75
spend it at home, in front of a roaring fire, and his smooth-necked, sweetsmelling wife and a bottle of her favorite wine.
You work too hard, she had fussed at him just last month, rubbing a
minty-smelling oil into his aching muscles after a particularly grueling
night hunched over the lightboard, choosing negatives. A lways pushing,
always proving. You don't have anything to prove. But he did. Had to
take better photos, find the most haunting expressions, the perfect lighting.
All to prove to himself that he was the photographer his press made him
out to be, and not just some freak from a family of freaks, that his work
was the result of talent and dedication, not some genetic mutation, a
parasite on human existence.
Shh, my love, he could hear Dani whisper. I'm here, and I love you.
She would whisper that, baring her neck so that he might graze along
that smooth dark column, feel the pulsing of her blood ...
He swore, cutting off those thoughts before his body reacted to the
thought of her strength, her warmth. Jamming his hands into the pockets
of his trench, he watched the street theater, looking for something that
would finish the evening on a positive note, leave him anxious to see the
proof page. But the street was empty for the moment, leaving him with
the little voice, which had crept back the moment his attention was distracted. The perfect photograph, it coaxed him. Something so heartbreakingly perfect that only you could create. Otherwise this exhibit is
going to end on a downer, and there's enough of that in this world,
isn't there?
Cursing under his breath, he scared off a ragged teen who had sidled
up next to him. Westin watched the kid's disappearing backside with wry
amusement. It had been a long time since anyone had tried to mug him,
and he would have given the boy the twenty or so bucks he had in his
pocket, just to reward such chutzpa.
Checking the street one last time, he sighed and gave up. Time to call
it a good haul, and head on home. To bed, perchance to screw, and then
to sleep. Hanging the camera strap around his shoulder, he adjusted the
nylon webbing until the shoulder patch fit snugly against his coat. There's
still film left, the little voice said, sliding and seducing like a televangelist.
Can't go home with film left.
"I'll take shots of some of New York's Finest," he told himself. Fragile
humans, holding back the night. lt would be a good image, and it would
please Miguel to be included. And Tonia, his partner. Kid was so green
his unifo?m squeaked when he walked. Veteran and rook, side by side,
against the squalor of the bus terminal. Maybe he'd catch them in an
argument. He could see that, frame it in his head. The possibilities grew,
flicking across the screen in his head fast enough to wipe all thoughts of
That Shot out of his head. By the time he reached the corner of Seventh
Avenue, he had it all planned out. Stopping to look up at the still-dark
sky, he thought he could see just the faintest hint of light creeping skyward 
3 76 ?
?JD.f!JI ExPOSURE
from the east. False dawn. At home, he would be watching the deer come
down from the wooded area to eat his bushes. He had done an essay on
them for National Wildlife which paid well enough to replace the rosebushes the hoofed terrorists had devoured the spring before.
Waiting at the light on the corner of Forty-first and Eighth, something
made him tilt his head to the right. There. By the chain-link fence protecting an empty lot. A shadow that wasn't a shadow. His soothing
thoughts broke like mirror shards, and he turned his head to stare straight
across the street. Live and let live. The fact that he chose not to huntdid not, in fact, have to-did not mean others might not. Only once had
he made it his concern, when a kinswoman had gotten messy, leaving
corpses over the city-his city. His mouth tightened as he remembered
the confrontation that had followed. He hadn't wanted to destroy herbut he wasn't ready to end his existence yet either. And letting her continue was out of the question. Only fools saw humans as fodder. They
were kin, higher in some ways, lesser in others, but in the balance of
time, equal. He believed that, as his father had believed that, raising his
children to live alongside the daylight-driven world as best they could,
encouraging them to build support groups, humans-companions-that
would offer so that they need not take. It was possible, his father had
lectured them, to exist without violence. And so they had. And the daylight world had given him good friends, a loving wife-and the means to
express the visions which only his eyes could see.
With that thought in mind, he turned slowly, looking up at the sky
behind him. False dawn. It was almost upon him.
The perfect photograph. It would only take one shot. One exposure,
and then it's done.
A scrap of memory came over him. "If 't were done, 't were best done
quickly . .. " Damn. Damn damn damn damn.
It seemed almost as though another person took control; moved his
body across the street, dodged the overanxious cabs turning corners to
pick up the last fare of the night. Someone else walked across the bare
floor of the terminal that even at this hour still hosted a number of grubby
souls wandering, some slumped over knapsacks, asleep, some reading
newspapers or staring down into their coffee as though it held some terrible answer. His hand powered by someone else reached for the camera,
holding it like a talisman, a fetish. Standing on the escalator, he watched
out of habit, his mind already on what he was going to do. He could feel
it pulling him, a siren's song, and he cursed himself. But he couldn't stop,
no more than the first three times he had tried. Tried, and failed.
Crossing over to the next level of escalators, he paused at the first step,
willing his body to stop, turn around, get on the bus that would take him
home. Only a fool would continue, only a madman. Looking down, he
saw first one boot, then the other, move on to the metal steps, his left 
LAURA ANNE GILMAN ? 3 7 7
hand grasping the railing. With his right hand he fingered the camera's
casing, stroking his thumb over the shutter button.
At the end of this escalator he stopped, hitting his free hand against
the sign that thanked him in Spanish and English for not giving money
to panhandlers. The pain made him wince. At least in that they were
equal, humans and he. Pain was a bitch. He hit his hand again, then gave
up. The siren call, as strong as blood, had him again, and he had no
choice but to give in. If it was to be done, it had to be done fast. Get in,
get out, go home. Punching the up button, he waited for the elevator that
would take him to the rooftop parking lot.
He adjusted the camera in his hand, barely aware of the sweat that ran
down the back of his neck and down the front of his shirt. Shifting closer
to the roof edge, he leaned against the ornate masonry, bracing himself.
A glint of light caught his attention and he squinted, the hair along his
arm rising in protest. "One minute more, " he told himself. "Just one
damn more minute, you bitch, and I'll have you. Come on, come on, do
it for me!" He swallowed with difficulty, wishing for the water bottle at
arms' reach, as impossible as if it were on another planet.
Another flicker of light caught the first building, fracturing against the
wall of windows. "Come on, " he said under his breath, unaware of anything except the oncoming moment. He could feel it, a sexual thrill waiting to shoot through his body, better than anything, even the flush of the
first draw of blood. This was why he was alive. This was it, this was the
per{ect moment ... He drew the camera to his face, focusing on primal
instinct. The light rose a fraction higher, and he was dropping the camera,
running for the maintenance door, aware only of the screaming animal
need to hide, survive, get away from that damn mocking bitch. The camera lay where it fell: abandoned, broken.
"Goddamn, " Westin swore, shaking himself free of the memory. "Go
home, Westin. It's a fucking picture. Not worth dying for." The woman
exiting the elevator glanced at him, pulling her coat closer around her
body as she swept past him, eyes forward in a ten-point exhibition of
New York street sense. The first rule: never let them see you seeing them.
He moved past her on instinct, not realizing until the doors had closed
that he passed the Rubicon. "Well goddamn," he said again, but he was
grinning. A predator's flash of too-white teeth, a grin of hungry anticipation. His fangs tingled, the veins underneath them widening in response
to the rush of adrenaline coursing through his body.
The parking lot was mostly deserted-the late-night partiers having
headed home, and the Jersey commuters not yet in. There were a handful
of cars parked in the back for monthly storage, and one beat-up blue
Dart pulled in as he stood there. He waited in the shadows until the
driver, a heavy-set man wearing workboots and carrying a leather briefcase, passed by him into the elevator.
Going to the edge of the lot, he sat on the cold metal railing, hooking 
3 7 8 ?
MJJWI EXPOSURE
one foot under the longest rung to keep himself from slipping five stories
to the pavement waiting below. The air was noticeably colder here, the
wind coming at him without buffer. Dawn was coming, damn her. He
could feel it in every sinew of his body, every instinct-driven muscle
screaming for him to find a dark cave in which to wait the daylight
hours out.
Forcing himself to breathe evenly, he took control of those instincts,
forcing them back under the layers of civilization and experience. There
would be plenty of time to find a bolthole somewhere in the massive bulk
of the Port Authority. He had done it before, here and elsewhere. It was
all timing. Timing, he reminded himself, and not panicking.
Squinting against the wind, he swung his body into better position,
facing eastward, toward the East River. Toward the rising sun.
Idiot, a new, more rational voice said in tones of foreboding. Do the
words crispy critter mean anything to you? He shrugged off the voice,
lifting the camera to his eye. There was only the moment, and the shot.
His entire universe narrowed down to that one instant, his entire existence
nothing more than the diameter of the lens. His fingers moved with a sure
steadiness, adjusting the focus minutely, his body tense.
A particularly aggressive gust of wind shook the rooftop, making him
lose the frame. Swearing, he fought to regain it, all the while conscious
of seconds ticking by, each moment more deadly than the last. A taloned
claw clenched in his gut, and sweat ran along his hairline and down under
his collar. "Damn, damn, damn," he chanted under his breath, a mantra.
The muscles in his back tightened, his legs spasming. But his arms, his
hands, remained still, the muscles cording from the strain.
The first ray of light touched the rooftops, glinting deadly against empty
windows. He swore again, his finger hovering over the shutter button.
"Come on, baby," he coaxed it, a tentative lover. "Come here. That's
it, you're so perfect."
Another ray joined the first, the faintest hint of yellow in the pure
light. The hairs along his arms stirred underneath the turtleneck, his heart
agitating with the screaming in his head to get out get away you dumb
fuck get O UT. His hands remained steady, his eyes frozen, unblinking:
waiting, j ust waiting. He could smell it now, that perfect moment, with
more certainty than he'd ever known. Everything slowed, his breathing
louder than the wind .still pushing the building beneath him, his body
quivering under the need for release.
A third ray sprang across the sky, then a fourth and fifth too fast to
discern. Suddenly the rooftops were lit by a glorious burst of prismscattered light, heart-stopping, agonizing, indelible. A ray flashed toward
him, reflected by a wall of glass, and glanced off the brick barely a foot
to the left. His forefinger oh so slowly pressed toward the shutter button
while every muscle twisted in imagined agony. "Come on come on come
on ... " he whispered, holding himself back for the perfect second. 
LAURA ANNE GILMAN ? 3 7 9
The smooth metal was underneath his fingertip when the first light
caught him, slashing against his cheek, his chest, reaching through the
skin into his vital organs.
He screamed, falling backwards in a desperate attempt to keep the
deadly light from him, slamming to the cold cement floor even as his
finger pushed, even as his ears heard the click of the shutter closing underneath the sound of his own primal voice.
His skin was burning, the blood seeping from the pores of his face and
arms. The pain was everywhere, searing him, branding him. Tears tinctured with red washed a track down his narrow nose.
Crawling to his feet, Westin barely retained the presence of mind to
shove the camera back into its padded carry-bag before dragging himself
to the elevator and slamming his fist against the Down button. Blood
dripped down his arm and onto the fabric.
The elevator opened in front of him. Westin pushed himself into the
empty space, shaking. He leaned against the back wall and drew a deep
breath, knowledge of his own stupidity battling with the sheer exhilaration
of a different sort of hunt.
All too soon, the rush was over, and he was himself again, drenched
in sweat and drying blood. In his memory, the sun rose like some killer
angel, and he knew his actions for what they were-vanity.
But he would do it again. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Allen, Woody: "Count Dracula." Copyright © 1 971 by Woody Allen. Reprinted
by permission of Random House, Inc.
Beaumont, Charles: "Blood Brother." Copyright © 1 961 by HMH Pub. Co., renewed 1 989 by Christopher Beaumont.
Brown, Frederic: "Blood." Copyright © 1 955 by Frederic Brown.
Bryant, Edward: "Good Kids." Copyright © 1 989 by Edward Bryant. First appeared in Blood is Not Enough, edited by Ellen Datlow.
Carter, Leslie Roy: "Vanishing Breed." Copyright © 1 970 by Leslie Roy Carter.
First published in Curse of the Undead, edited by Margaret L. Carter.
Casper, Susan: "A Child of Darkness." Copyright © 1989 by Susan Casper.
Charnas, Suzy McKee: "Unicorn Tapestry." Copyright © 1988 by Suzy McKee
Charnas.
Cheever, John: "Torch Song." From The Stories of John Cheever by John Cheever.
Copyright © 1 947 by John Cheever. Reprinted by permission of Alfred A.
Knopf Inc.
Derleth, August: "The Drifting Snow." Copyright © 1 997 by Arkham House
Publishers.
Ewers, Hanns Heinz: "The Spider." Copyright © 1 921 by Hanns Heinz Ewers.
Gilman, Laura Anne: "Exposure." Copyright © 1 995 by Laura Anne Gilman.
King, Stephen: Salem's Lot. Reprinted with permission. Copyright © 1 976 Stephen
King. All rights reserved. Originally published in Playboy magazine.
Lee, Tanith: "Bite-Me-Not or Fleur de Feu." Copyright © 1 984 by Tanith Lee.
Leiber, Fritz: "The Girl With the Hungry Eyes." Copyright © 1 989 by Fritz Leiber.
Matheson, Richard: I Am Legend. Copyright © 1 954, renewed 1 982 by Richard
Matheson. Reprinted by permission of Don Congdon Associates, Inc.
Moore, C. L.: "Shambleau." Copyright © 1 933 by Popular Fiction Publishing
Co., renewed 1961 by C. L. Moore. Reprinted by permission of Don Congdon
Associates, Inc.
Oates, Joyce Carol: Bellefleur. Copyright © 1 980 by Ontario Review Press. Reprinted by permission of John Hawkins & Associates, Inc.
Rice, Anne: "The Master of Rampling Gate." Copyright © 1 983 by Anne O'Brien
Rice. Originally published in Redbook. Reprinted by permission of author.
Strieber, Whitley: "The Hunger." Copyright © 1 981 by Andrew Strieber.
Yarbro, Chelsea Quinn: Hotel Transylvania. Copyright © 1 978, 1 988 by Chelsea
Quinn Yarbro.
Zelazny, Roger: "The Stainless Steel Leech." Copyright © 1 963 by Roger Zelazny. 