For Forest, Jade, Haven and Jerry – and everyone else in the back of the truck
ELEANOR & PARK
Rainbow Rowell
Contents
Dedication
Title Page
August 1986
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
Chapter 10
Chapter 11
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
Chapter 16
Chapter 17
Chapter 18
Chapter 19
Chapter 20
Chapter 21
Chapter 22
Chapter 23
Chapter 24
Chapter 25
Chapter 26
Chapter 27
Chapter 28
Chapter 29
Chapter 30
Chapter 31
Chapter 32
Chapter 33
Chapter 34
Chapter 35
Chapter 36
Chapter 37
Chapter 38
Chapter 39
Chapter 40
Chapter 41
Chapter 42
Chapter 43
Chapter 44
Chapter 45
Chapter 46
Chapter 47
Chapter 48
Chapter 49
Chapter 50
Chapter 51
Chapter 52
Chapter 53
Chapter 54
Chapter 55
Chapter 56
Chapter 57
Chapter 58
Acknowledgments
About the Author
Copyright
He’d stopped trying to bring her back.
She only came back when she felt like it, in dreams and lies and broken-down
déjà vu.
Like, he’d be driving to work, and he’d see a girl with red hair standing on the
corner – and he’d swear, for half a choking moment, that it was her.
Then he’d see that the girl’s hair was more blond than red.
And that she was holding a cigarette … And wearing a Sex Pistols T-shirt.
Eleanor hated the Sex Pistols.
Eleanor …
Standing behind him until he turned his head. Lying next to him just before he
woke up. Making everyone else seem drabber and flatter and never good enough.
Eleanor ruining everything.
Eleanor, gone.
He’d stopped trying to bring her back.
AUGUST 1986
CHAPTER 1
Park
XTC was no good for drowning out the morons at the back of the bus.
Park pressed his headphones into his ears.
Tomorrow he was going to bring Skinny Puppy or the Misfits. Or maybe he’d
make a special bus tape with as much screaming and wailing on it as possible.
He could get back to New Wave in November, after he got his driver’s license.
His parents had already said Park could have his mom’s Impala, and he’d been
saving up for a new tape deck. Once he started driving to school, he could listen to
whatever he wanted or nothing at all, and he’d get to sleep in an extra twenty
minutes.
‘That doesn’t exist,’ somebody shouted behind him.
‘It so fucking does,’ Steve shouted back. ‘Drunken-monkey style, man, it’s a
real fucking thing. You can kill somebody with it …’
‘You’re full of shit.’
‘You’re full of shit,’ Steve said. ‘Park! Hey, Park.’
Park heard him, but didn’t answer. Sometimes, if you ignored Steve for a
minute, he moved onto someone else. Knowing that was 80 percent of surviving
with Steve as your neighbor. The other 20 percent was just keeping your head
down …
Which Park had momentarily forgotten. A ball of paper hit him in the back of
the head.
‘Those were my Human Growth and Development notes, dicklick,’ Tina said.
‘I’m sorry, baby,’ Steve said. ‘I’ll teach you all about human growth and
development. What do you need to know?’
‘Teach her drunken-monkey style,’ somebody said.
‘PARK!’ Steve shouted.
Park pulled down his headphones and turned to the back of the bus. Steve was
holding court in the last seat. Even sitting, his head practically touched the roof.
Steve always looked like he was surrounded by doll furniture. He’d looked like a
grown man since the seventh grade, and that was before he grew a full beard.
Slightly before.
Sometimes Park wondered if Steve was with Tina because she made him look
even more like a monster. Most of the girls from the Flats were small, but Tina
couldn’t be five feet. Massive hair, included.
Once, back in middle school, some guy had tried to give Steve shit about how
he better not get Tina pregnant because if he did, his giant babies would kill her.
‘They’ll bust out of her stomach like in Aliens,’ the guy said. Steve broke his little
finger on the guy’s face.
When Park’s dad heard, he said, ‘Somebody needs to teach that Murphy kid
how to make a fist.’ But Park hoped nobody would. The guy Steve hit couldn’t
open his eyes for a week.
Park tossed Tina her balled-up homework. She caught it.
‘Park,’ Steve said, ‘tell Mikey about drunken-monkey karate.’
‘I don’t know anything about it.’ Park shrugged.
‘But it exists, right?’
‘I guess I’ve heard of it.’
‘There,’ Steve said. He looked for something to throw at Mikey, but couldn’t
find anything. He pointed instead. ‘I fucking told you.’
‘What the fuck does Sheridan know about kung fu?’ Mikey said.
‘Are you retarded?’ Steve said. ‘His mom’s Chinese.’
Mikey looked at Park carefully. Park smiled and narrowed his eyes. ‘Yeah, I
guess I see it,’ Mikey said. ‘I always thought you were Mexican.’
‘Shit, Mikey,’ Steve said, ‘you’re such a fucking racist.’
‘She’s not Chinese,’ Tina said. ‘She’s Korean.’
‘Who is?’ Steve asked.
‘Park’s mom.’
Park’s mom had been cutting Tina’s hair since grade school. They both had
the exact same hairstyle, long spiral perms with tall, feathered bangs.
‘She’s fucking hot is what she is,’ Steve said, cracking himself up. ‘No
offense, Park.’
Park managed another smile and slunk back into his seat, putting his
headphones back on and cranking up the volume. He could still hear Steve and
Mikey, four seats behind him.
‘But what’s the fucking point?’ Mikey asked.
‘Dude, would you want to fight a drunk monkey? They’re fucking huge.
Like Every Which Way But Loose, man. Imagine that bastard losing his shit on
you.’
Park noticed the new girl at about the same time everybody else did. She was
standing at the front of the bus, next to the first available seat.
There was a kid sitting there by himself, a freshman. He put his bag down on
the seat beside him, then looked the other way. All down the aisle, anybody who
was sitting alone moved to the edge of their seat. Park heard Tina snicker; she
lived for this stuff.
The new girl took a deep breath and stepped farther down the aisle. Nobody
would look at her. Park tried not to, but it was kind of a train wreck/eclipse
situation.
The girl just looked like exactly the sort of person this would happen to.
Not just new – but big and awkward. With crazy hair, bright red on top of
curly. And she was dressed like … like she wanted people to look at her. Or maybe
like she didn’t get what a mess she was. She had on a plaid shirt, a man’s shirt,
with half a dozen weird necklaces hanging around her neck and scarves wrapped
around her wrists. She reminded Park of a scarecrow or one of the trouble dolls his
mom kept on her dresser. Like something that wouldn’t survive in the wild.
The bus stopped again, and a bunch more kids got on. They pushed past the
girl, knocking into her, and dropped into their own seats.
That was the thing – everybody on the bus already had a seat. They’d all
claimed one on the first day of school. People like Park who were lucky enough to
have a whole seat to themselves weren’t going to give that up now. Especially not
for someone like this.
Park looked back up at the girl. She was just standing there.
‘Hey, you,’ the bus driver yelled, ‘sit down.’
The girl started moving toward the back of the bus. Right into the belly of the
beast. God, Park thought, stop. Turn around. He could feel Steve and Mikey
licking their chops as she got closer. He tried again to look away.
Then the girl spotted an empty seat just across from Park. Her face lit with
relief, and she hurried toward it.
‘Hey,’ Tina said sharply.
The girl kept moving.
‘Hey,’ Tina said, ‘Bozo.’
Steve started laughing. His friends fell in a few seconds behind him.
‘You can’t sit there,’ Tina said. ‘That’s Mikayla’s seat.’
The girl stopped and looked up at Tina, then looked back at the empty seat.
‘Sit down,’ the driver bellowed from the front.
‘I have to sit somewhere,’ the girl said to Tina in a firm, calm voice.
‘Not my problem,’ Tina snapped. The bus lurched, and the girl rocked back to
keep from falling. Park tried to turn the volume up on his Walkman, but it was
already all the way up. He looked back at the girl; it looked like she was starting to
cry.
Before he’d even decided to do it, Park scooted toward the window.
‘Sit down,’ he said. It came out angrily. The girl turned to him, like she
couldn’t tell whether he was another jerk or what. ‘Jesus-fuck,’ Park said softly,
nodding to the space next to him, ‘just sit down.’
The girl sat down. She didn’t say anything – thank God, she didn’t thank him
– and she left six inches of space on the seat between them.
Park turned toward the Plexiglas window and waited for a world of suck to hit
the fan.
CHAPTER 2
Eleanor
Eleanor considered her options:
1. She could walk home from school. Pros: Exercise, color in her cheeks, time to
herself. Cons: She didn’t know her new address yet, or even the general direction
to start walking.
2. She could call her mom and ask for a ride. Pros: Lots. Cons: Her mom didn’t have
a phone. Or a car.
3. She could call her dad. Ha.
4. She could call her grandma. Just to say hi.
She was sitting on the concrete steps at the front of the school, staring out at the
row of yellow buses. Her bus was right there. No. 666.
Even if Eleanor could avoid the bus today, even if her fairy godmother showed
up with a pumpkin carriage, she’d still have to find a way to get back to school
tomorrow morning.
And it’s not like the devil-kids on the bus were going to wake up on the other
side of their beds tomorrow. Seriously. It wouldn’t surprise Eleanor if they
unhinged their jaws the next time she saw them. That girl in the back with the 
blond hair and the acid-washed jacket? You could practically see the horns hidden
in her bangs. And her boyfriend was possibly a member of the Nephilim.
That girl – all of them – hated Eleanor before they’d even laid eyes on her.
Like they’d been hired to kill her in a past life.
Eleanor couldn’t tell if the Asian kid who finally let her sit down was one of
them, or whether he was just really stupid. (But not stupid-stupid … He was in two
of Eleanor’s honors classes.)
Her mom had insisted that the new school put Eleanor in honors classes. She’d
freaked when she saw how bad Eleanor’s grades were from last year in the ninth
grade. ‘This can’t be a surprise to you, Mrs Douglas,’ the counselor said.Ha,
Eleanor thought, you’d be surprised what could be a surprise at this point.
Whatever. Eleanor could stare at the clouds just as easily in honors classes.
There were just as many windows.
If she ever even came back to this school.
If she ever even got home.
Eleanor couldn’t tell her mom about the bus situation anyway because her
mom had already said that Eleanor didn’t have to ride the bus. Last night, when she
was helping Eleanor unpack …
‘Richie said he’ll take you,’ her mom said. ‘It’s on his way to work.’
‘Is he going to make me ride in the back of his truck?’
‘He’s trying to make peace, Eleanor. You promised that you’d try, too.’
‘It’s easier for me to make peace from a distance.’
‘I told him you were ready to be part of this family.’
‘I’m already part of this family. I’m like a charter member.’
‘Eleanor,’ her mom said. ‘Please.’
‘I’ll just ride the bus,’ Eleanor had said. ‘It’s not a big deal. I’ll meet people.’
Ha, Eleanor thought now. Giant, dramatic ha.
Her bus was going to leave soon. A few of the other buses were already
pulling away. Somebody ran down the steps next to Eleanor and accidentally
kicked her bag. She pulled it out of the way and started to say sorry – but it was
that stupid Asian kid, and he frowned when he saw that it was her. She frowned
right back at him, and he ran ahead.
Oh, fine, Eleanor thought. The children of hell shan’t go hungry on my watch.
CHAPTER 3
Park
She didn’t talk to him on the ride home.
Park had spent all day trying to think of how to get away from the new girl.
He’d have to switch seats. That was the only answer. But switch to what seat? He
didn’t want to force himself on somebody else. And even the act of switching seats
would catch Steve’s attention.
Park had expected Steve to start in on him as soon he let the girl sit down, but
Steve had gone right back to talking about kung fu again. Park, by the way, knew
plenty about kung fu. Because his dad was obsessed with martial arts, not because 
his mom was Korean. Park and his little brother, Josh, had been taking taekwando
since they could walk.
Switch seats, how …?
He could probably find a seat up front with the freshmen, but that would be a
spectacular show of weakness. And he almost hated to think about leaving the
weird new girl at the back of the bus by herself.
He hated himself for thinking like this.
If his dad knew he was thinking like this, he’d call Park a pussy. Out loud, for
once. If his grandma knew, she’d smack him on the back of the head. ‘Where are
you manners?’ she’d say. ‘Is that any way to treat somebody who’s down on her
luck?’
But Park didn’t have any luck – or status – to spare on that dumb redhead. He
had just enough to keep himself out of trouble. And he knew it was crappy, but he
was kind of grateful that people like that girl existed. Because people like Steve
and Mikey and Tina existed, too, and they needed to be fed. If it wasn’t that
redhead, it was going to be somebody else. And if it wasn’t somebody else, it was
going to be Park.
Steve had let it go this morning, but he wouldn’t keep letting it go …
Park could hear his grandma again. ‘Seriously, son, you’re giving yourself a
stomach ache because you did something nice while other people were watching?’
It wasn’t even that nice, Park thought. He’d let the girl sit down, but he’d
sworn at her. When she showed up in his English class that afternoon, it felt like
she was there to haunt him …
‘Eleanor,’ Mr Stessman said. ‘What a powerful name. It’s a queen’s name,
you know.’
‘It’s the name of the fat Chipette,’ somebody behind Park whispered.
Somebody else laughed.
Mr Stessman gestured to an empty desk up front.
‘We’re reading poetry today, Eleanor,’ Mr Stessman said. ‘Dickinson. Perhaps
you’d like to get us started.’
Mr Stessman opened her book to the right page and pointed. ‘Go ahead,’ he
said, ‘clear and loud. I’ll tell you when to stop.’
The new girl looked at Mr Stessman like she hoped he was kidding. When it
was clear that he wasn’t – he almost never was – she started to read.
‘I had been hungry all the years,’ she read. A few kids laughed. Jesus, Park
thought, only Mr Stessman would make a chubby girl read a poem about eating on
her first day of class.
‘Carry on, Eleanor,’ Mr Stessman said.
She started over, which Park thought was a terrible idea.
‘I had been hungry all the years,’ she said, louder this time.
‘My noon had come, to dine,
‘I, trembling, drew the table near,
‘And touched the curious wine.
‘T’was this on tables I had seen,
‘When turning, hungry, lone,
‘I looked in windows, for the wealth
‘I could not hope to own.’
Mr Stessman didn’t stop her, so she read the whole poem in that cool, defiant
voice. The same voice she’d used on Tina.
‘That was wonderful,’ Mr Stessman said when she was done. He was
beaming. ‘Just wonderful. I hope you’ll stay with us, Eleanor, at least until we
do Medea. That’s a voice that arrives on a chariot drawn by dragons.’
When the girl showed up in history, Mr Sanderhoff didn’t make a scene. But
he did say, ‘Ah. Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine,’ when she handed him her
paperwork. She sat down a few rows ahead of Park and, as far as he could tell,
spent the whole period staring at the sun.
Park couldn’t think of a way to get rid of her on the bus. Or a way to get rid of
himself. So he put his headphones on before the girl sat down and turned the
volume all the way up.
Thank God she didn’t try to talk to him.
CHAPTER 4
Eleanor
She got home that afternoon before all the little kids, which was good because she
wasn’t ready to see them again. It had been such a freak show when she’d walked
in last night …
Eleanor had spent so much time thinking about what it would be like to finally
come home and how much she missed everybody – she thought they’d throw her a
ticker-tape parade. She thought it would be a big hugfest.
But when Eleanor walked in the house, it was like her siblings didn’t
recognize her.
Ben just glanced at her, and Maisie – Maisie was sitting on Richie’s lap.
Which would have made Eleanor throw right up if she hadn’t just promised her
mom that she’d be on her best behavior for the rest of her life.
Only Mouse ran to hug Eleanor. She picked him up gratefully. He was five
now, and heavy.
‘Hey, Mouse,’ she said. They’d called him that since he was a baby, she
couldn’t remember why. He reminded her more of a big, sloppy puppy – always
excited, always trying to jump into your lap.
‘Look, Dad, it’s Eleanor,’ Mouse said, jumping down. ‘Do you know
Eleanor?’
Richie pretended not to hear. Maisie watched and sucked her thumb. Eleanor
hadn’t seen her do that in years. She was eight now, but with her thumb in her
mouth, she looked just like a baby.
The baby wouldn’t remember Eleanor at all. He’d be two … There he was,
sitting on the floor with Ben. Ben was eleven. He stared at the wall behind the TV.
Their mom carried the duffel bag with Eleanor’s stuff into a bedroom off the
living room, and Eleanor followed her. The room was tiny, just big enough for a
dresser and some bunk beds. Mouse ran into the room after them. ‘You get the top 
bunk,’ he said, ‘and Ben has to sleep on the floor with me. Mom already told us,
and Ben started to cry.’
‘Don’t worry about that,’ their mom said softly. ‘We all just have to readjust.’
There wasn’t room in this room to readjust. (Which Eleanor decided not to
mention.) She went to bed as soon as she could, so she wouldn’t have to go back
out to the living room.
When she woke up in the middle of the night, all three of her brothers were
asleep on the floor. There was no way to get up without stepping on one of them,
and she didn’t even know where the bathroom was …
She found it. There were only five rooms in the house, and the bathroom just
barely counted. It was attached to the kitchen – like literally attached, without a
door. This house was designed by cave trolls, Eleanor thought. Somebody,
probably her mom, had hung a flowered sheet between the refrigerator and the
toilet.
When she got home from school, Eleanor let herself in with her new key. The
house was possibly even more depressing in daylight – dingy and bare – but at
least Eleanor had the place, and her mom, to herself.
It was weird to come home and see her mom, just standing in the kitchen, like
… like normal. She was making soup, chopping onions. Eleanor felt like crying.
‘How was school?’ her mom asked.
‘Fine,’ Eleanor said.
‘Did you have a good first day?’
‘Sure. I mean, yeah, it was just school.’
‘Will you have a lot of catching up to do?’
‘I don’t think so.’
Her mom wiped her hands on the back of her jeans and tucked her hair behind
her ears, and Eleanor was struck, for the ten-thousandth time, by how beautiful she
was.
When Eleanor was a little girl, she’d thought her mom looked like a queen,
like the star of some fairy tale.
Not a princess – princesses are just pretty. Eleanor’s mother was beautiful. She
was tall and stately, with broad shoulders and an elegant waist. All of her bones
seemed more purposeful than other people’s. Like they weren’t just there to hold
her up, they were there to make a point.
She had a strong nose and a sharp chin, and her cheekbones were high and
thick. You’d look at Eleanor’s mom and think she must be carved into the prow of
a Viking ship somewhere or maybe painted on the side of a plane …
Eleanor looked a lot like her.
But not enough.
Eleanor looked like her mother through a fish tank. Rounder and softer.
Slurred. Where her mother was statuesque, Eleanor was heavy. Where her mother
was finely drawn, Eleanor was smudged.
After five kids, her mother had breasts and hips like a woman in a cigarette ad.
At sixteen, Eleanor was already built like she ran a medieval pub.
She had too much of everything and too little height to hide it. Her breasts
started just below her chin, her hips were … a parody. Even her mom’s hair, long
and wavy and auburn, was a more legitimate version of Eleanor’s bright red curls.
Eleanor put her hand to her head self-consciously.
‘I have something to show you,’ her mom said, covering the soup, ‘but I didn’t
want to do it in front of the little kids. Here, come on.’
Eleanor followed her into the kids’ bedroom. Her mom opened the closet and
took out a stack of towels and a laundry basket full of socks.
‘I couldn’t bring all your things when we moved,’ she said. ‘Obviously we
don’t have as much room here as we had in the old house …’ She reached into the
closet and pulled out a black plastic garbage bag. ‘But I packed as much as I
could.’
She handed Eleanor the bag and said, ‘I’m sorry about the rest.’
Eleanor had assumed that Richie threw all her stuff in the trash a year ago, ten
seconds after he’d kicked her out. She took the bag in her arms. ‘It’s okay,’ she
said. ‘Thanks.’
Her mom reached out and touched Eleanor’s shoulder, just for a second. ‘The
little kids will be home in twenty minutes or so,’ she said, ‘and we’ll eat dinner
around 4:30. I like to have everything settled before Richie comes home.’
Eleanor nodded. She opened the bag as soon as her mom left the room. She
wanted to see what was still hers …
The first thing she recognized were the paper dolls. They were loose in the bag
and wrinkled; a few were marked with crayons. It had been years since Eleanor
had played with them, but she was still happy to see them there. She pressed them
flat and laid them in a pile.
Under the dolls were books, a dozen or so that her mother must have grabbed
at random; she wouldn’t have known which were Eleanor’s favorites. Eleanor was
glad to see Garp and Watership Down. It sucked that Oliver’s Storyhad made the
cut, but Love Story hadn’t. And Little Men was there, but not Little Women or Jo’s
Boys.
There was a bunch more papers in the bag. She’d had a file cabinet in her old
room, and it looked like her mom had grabbed most of the folders. Eleanor tried to
get everything into a neat stack, all the report cards and school pictures and letters
from pen pals.
She wondered where the rest of the stuff from the old house had ended up. Not
just her stuff, but everybody’s. Like the furniture and the toys, and all of her
mom’s plants and paintings. Her grandma’s Danish wedding plates … The little
red ‘Uff da!’ horse that always used to hang above the sink.
Maybe it was packed away somewhere. Maybe her mom was hoping the cavetroll house was just temporary.
Eleanor was still hoping that Richie was just temporary.
At the bottom of the black trash bag was a box. Her heart jumped a little when
she saw it. Her uncle in Minnesota used to send her family a Fruit of the Month
Club membership every Christmas, and Eleanor and her brothers and sister would 
always fight over the boxes that the fruit came in. It was stupid, but they were good
boxes – solid, with nice lids. This one was a grapefruit box, soft from wear at the
edges.
Eleanor opened it carefully. Nothing inside had been touched. There was her
stationery, her colored pencils and her Prismacolor markers (another Christmas
present from her uncle). There was a stack of promotional cards from the mall that
still smelled like expensive perfumes. And there was her Walkman. Untouched.
Un-batteried, too, but nevertheless, there. And where there was a Walkman, there
was the possibility of music.
Eleanor let her head fall over the box. It smelled like Chanel No. 5 and pencil
shavings. She sighed.
There wasn’t anything to do with her recovered belongings once she’d sorted
through them – there wasn’t even room in the dresser for Eleanor’s clothes. So she
set aside the box and the books, and carefully put everything else back in the
garbage bag. Then she pushed the bag back as far as she could on the highest shelf
in the closet, behind the towels and a humidifier.
She climbed onto her bunk and found a scraggly old cat napping there. ‘Shoo,’
Eleanor said, shoving him. The cat leaped to the floor and out the bedroom door.
CHAPTER 5
Park
Mr Stessman was making them all memorize a poem, whatever poem they wanted.
Well, whatever poem they picked.
‘You’re going to forget everything else I teach you,’ Mr Stessman said, petting
his mustache. ‘Everything. Maybe you’ll remember that Beowulf fought a monster.
Maybe you’ll remember that “To be or not to be” is Hamlet, notMacbeth …
‘But everything else? Forget about it.’
He was slowly walking up and down each aisle. Mr Stessman loved this kind
of stuff – theater in the round. He stopped next to Park’s desk and leaned in
casually with his hand on the back of Park’s chair. Park stopped drawing and sat
up straight. He couldn’t draw anyway.
‘So, you’re going to memorize a poem,’ Mr Stessman continued, pausing a
moment to smile down at Park like Gene Wilder in the chocolate factory.
‘Brains love poetry. It’s sticky stuff. You’re going to memorize this poem, and
five years from now, we’re going to see each other at the Village Inn, and you’ll
say, “Mr Stessman, I still remember ‘The Road Not Taken!’ Listen … ‘Two roads
diverged in a yellow wood …’”’
He moved on to the next desk. Park relaxed.
‘Nobody gets to pick “The Road Not Taken,” by the way, I’m sick to death of
it. And no Shel Silverstein. He’s grand, but you’ve graduated. We’re all adults
here. Choose an adult poem …
‘Choose a romantic poem, that’s my advice. You’ll get the most use out of it.’
He walked by the new girl’s desk, but she didn’t turn away from the window.
‘Of course, it’s up to you. You may choose “A Dream Deferred” – Eleanor?’
She turned blankly. Mr Stessman leaned in. ‘You may choose it, Eleanor. It’s
poignant and it’s truth. But how often will you get to roll that one out?
End of this sample Kindle book.
Enjoyed the preview?
Download/Read Online Unlimited Book