Thank you for downloading this
Simon & Schuster ebook.
Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases,
deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up
and see terms and conditions.
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP
Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send
you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your
inbox.

Publisher’s Notice
The publisher has provided this ebook to you without Digital Rights
Management (DRM) software applied so that you can enjoy reading
it on your personal devices. This ebook is for your personal use only.
You may not print or post this ebook, or make this ebook publicly
available in any way. You may not copy, reproduce, or upload this
ebook except to read it on your personal devices.
Copyright infringement is against the law. If you believe the copy of
this ebook you are reading infringes on the author’s copyright,
please notify the publisher at:
simonandschuster.biz/online_piracy_report.
For Jim Kuhn.
He was a real horror fan.
This scene of terror is repeated all too often in elk country every season. Over
the years, the hunters’ screams of anguish have rocked the timber.
—Don Laubach and Mark Henkel, Elk Talk
WILLISTON, NORTH DAKOTA
The headline for Richard Boss Ribs would be INDIAN MAN KILLED IN DISPUTE
OUTSIDE BAR.
That’s one way to say it.
Ricky had hired on with a drilling crew over in North Dakota. Because he
was the only Indian, he was Chief. Because he was new and probably
temporary, he was always the one getting sent down to guide the chain. Each
time he came back with all his ngers he would ash thumbs-up all around the
platform to show how he was lucky, how none of this was ever going to touch
him.
Ricky Boss Ribs.
He’d split from the reservation all at once, when his little brother Cheeto had
overdosed in someone’s living room, the television, Ricky was told, tuned to
that camera that just looks down on the IGA parking lot all the time. That was
the part Ricky couldn’t stop cycling through his head: that’s the channel only
the serious-old of the elders watched. It was just a running reminder how shit
the reservation was, how boring, how nothing. And his little brother didn’t
even watch normal television much, couldn’t sit still for it, would have been
reading comic books if anything.
Instead of shuing around the wake and standing out at the family plot up
behind East Glacier, everybody parked on the logging road behind it so they’d
have to come right up to the graves to turn their carsaround, Ricky ran away to
North Dakota. His plan was Minneapolis—he knew some cats there—but then
halfway there the oil crew had been hiring, and said they liked Indians because
of their built-in cold resistance. It meant they might not slip o in winter.
Ricky, sitting in the orange doghouse trailer for that interview, had nodded
yeah, Blackfeet didn’t care about the cold, and no, he wouldn’t leave them
shorthanded in the middle of a week. What he didn’t say was that you don’t get
cold-resistant because your jackets suck, you just stop complaining about itafter
a while, because complaining doesn’t make you any warmer. He also didn’t say
that, rst paycheck, he was gone to Minneapolis, bye.
The foreman interviewing him had been thick and windburned and sort of
blond, with a beard like a Brillo pad. When he’d reached across the table to shake
Ricky’s hand and look him in the eye while he did it, the modern world had
fallen away for a long blink and the two of them were standing in a canvas tent,
the foreman in a cavalry jacket, and Ricky already had designs on that jacket’s
brass buttons, wasn’t thinking at all of the paper on the table between them that
he’d just made his mark on.
This had been happening more and more to him the last few months. Ever
since hunting went bad last winter and right up through the interview to now,
not even stopping for Cheeto dying on that couch.
Cheeto hadn’t been his born name, but he had frecklesand orange hair, so it
wasn’t a name he could shake, either.
Ricky wondered how the funeral had gone. He wondered if right now there
was a big mulie nosing up to the chicken-wire fence around all these dead
Indians. He wondered what that big mulie saw, really. If it was just waiting all
of these two-leggers out.
Cheeto would have thought it was a pretty deer, Ricky gured. He had never
been a kid to get up early with Ricky to be out in the trees when light broke. He
hadn’t liked killing anything except beers, probably would have been vegetarian
if that was an option on the rez. His orange hair put enough of a bull’s-eye on
his back, though. Eating rabbit food would have just got more dumb Indians
lining up to put him down.
But then he’d died on that couch anyway, not even from anybody else, just
from himself, at which point Ricky gured he’d get out as well, screw it. Sure,
he could be this crew’s chain monkey for a week or two. Yeah, he could sleep
four to a doghouse with all these white boys, the wind rocking the trailer. No,
he didn’t mind being Chief, though he knew that, had he been around back in
the days of raiding and running down bualo, he’d have been a grunt then as
well. Whatever the bow-and-arrow version of a chain monkey was, that’d be
Ricky Boss Ribs’s station.
When he was a kid there’d been a picture book in the library, about HeadsSmashed-In or whatever it was called—the bualo jump, where the old-time
Blackfeet ran herd after herd o the cli. Ricky remembered that the boy
selected to drape a calf robe over his shoulders and run out in front of all those
bualo, he’d been the one to win all the races the elders had put him and all the
other kids in, and he’d been the one to climb all the trees the best, because you
needed to be fast to run ahead of all those tons of meat, and you needed good
hands to, at the last moment after sailing o the cli, grab on to the rope the
men had already left there, that would tuck you up under, safe.
What had it been like, sitting there while the bualo owed down through
the air within arm’s reach, bellowing, their legs probably sti because they
didn’t know for sure when the ground was coming?
What had it felt like, bringing meat to the whole tribe?
They’d almost done it last Thanksgiving, him and Gabe and Lewis and Cass,
they’d meant to, they were going to be those kinds of Indians for once, they had
been going to show everybody in Browning that this is the way it’s done, but
then the big wet snow had come in and everything had gone pretty much
straight to hell, leaving Ricky out here in North Dakota like he didn’t know any
better than to come in out of the cold.
Fuck it.
All he was going to hunt in Minneapolis was tacos, and a bed.
But, until then, this beer would work.
The bar was all roughnecks, wall-to-wall. No ghts yet, but give it time.
There was another Indian, Dakota probably, nursing a bottle in a corner by the
pool tables. He’d acknowledged Ricky and Ricky had nodded back, but there
was as much distance between the two of them as there was between Ricky and
his crew.
More important, there was a blond waitress balancing a tray of empties
between and among. Fifty sets of eyes were tracking her, easy. To Ricky she
looked like the tall girl Lewis had run o to Great Falls with in July, but she’d
probably already left hisass, meaning now Lewis was sitting in a bar down there
just like this one, peeling the label o his beer just the same.
Ricky lifted his bottle in greeting, across all the miles.
Four beers and nine country songs later, he was standing in line for the
urinal. Except the line was snaking all back down the hall already, and the last
time he’d been in there there’d already been guys pissing in the trash can and the
sink both. The air in there was gritty and yellow, almost crunched between
Ricky’s teeth when he’d accidentally opened his mouth. It wasn’t any worse
than the honeypots out at the rig, but out at the rig you could just unzip
wherever, let y.
Ricky backed out, drained his beer because cops love an Indian with a beer
bottle in the great outdoors, and made to push his way out for a breath of fresh
air, maybe a fence post in desperate need of watering.
At the exit the bouncer opened his meaty hand against Ricky’s chest, warned
him about leaving. Something about the head count and the re marshal.
Ricky looked past the open door to the clump of roughnecks and cowboys
waiting to come in, their eyes ashing up to him but not asking for anything. It
was the queue Ricky would have to mill around in to wait his turn to get back
in. But it was starting to not really be his decision anymore, right? Inside of
maybe ninety seconds, here, he was going to be peeing, so any way he could up
the chances of being someplace where he could do that without making a mess
of himself, well.
He could stand in a thirty-minute line to eyeball that blond waitress some
more, sure. Ricky turned sideways to slip past the bouncer, nodding that he
knew what he was doing, and already a roughneck was stepping forward to take
his place.
There wasn’t even any time to sti-leg it over beside the bar, by the steaming
pile of bags the dumpsters were. Ricky just walked straight ahead, out into the
sea of crew cab trucks parked more or less in rows, and on the way he unleashed
almost before he could come to a stop, had to lean back from it because this was
a serious re-hose situation.
He closed his eyes from the purest pleasure he’d felt in weeks, and when he
opened them, he had the feeling he wasn’t alone anymore.
He steeled himself.
Only stupid Indians brush past a bunch of hard-handed white dudes, each of
them sure that seat you had in the bar, it should have, by right, been theirs.
They’re cool with the Chief among them being the chain monkey, but when it
comes down to who has an eyeline on the white woman, well, that’s another
thing altogether, isn’t it?
Stupid, Ricky told himself. Stupid stupid stupid.
He looked ahead, to the hood he was going to hip-slide over, the bed of the
truck he hoped wasn’t piled with ankle-breaking equipment, because that was
his next step. A clump of white men can beat an Indian into the ground, yeah,
no doubt about it, happens every weekend up here on the Hi-Line. But they
have to catch his ass rst.
And now that he was, by his guring, about three uid pounds lighter, and
sobering up fast, no way waseven the ex–running back of them going to hook a
nger into Ricky’s shirt.
Ricky grinned a tight-lipped grin to himself and nodded for courage,
dislodging all the ries he couldn’t keep stacked up in his head, ries that were
actually behind the seat of his truck back at the site. When he’d left Browning
he’d taken them all, even his uncles’ and granddad’s—they were all in the same
closet by the front door—and then grabbed the gallon baggie of random shells,
guring some of them had to go to these guns.
The idea had been that he was going to need stake-money when he hit
Minneapolis, and ries turn into cash faster than just about anything. Except
then he’d found work along the way. And he’d got to thinking about his uncles
needing to ll their freezer for the winter.
Standing in the sprawling parking lot of the roughneck bar in North Dakota,
Ricky promised to mail every one of those back. Would he have to pull the
bolts, though, mail them in separate packages from the ries, so the ries
wouldn’t really be ries anymore?
Ricky didn’t know, but he did know that right now he wanted that pump
.30-06 in his hands. To shoot if it came to that, but mostly just to swing around,
the open end of the barrel leaving half-moons in cheeks and eyebrows and rib
cages, the butt perfect for jaws.
He might be going down in this parking lot in a puddle of his own piss, but
these grimy white boys were going to remember this Blackfeet, and think twice
the next time they saw one of him walking into their bar.
If only Gabe were here. Gabe liked this kind of shit—playing cowboys and
Indians in all the parking lots of the world. He’d do his stupid war whoop and
just rush the hell in. It might as well have been a hundred and fty yearsago for
him, every single day of his ridiculous life.
When you’re with him, though, with Gabe … Ricky narrowed his eyes,
nodded to himself again for strength. To fake it anyway—to try to be like Gabe,
here. When Ricky was with Gabe, he’d always want to give a whoop like that
too, the kind that made it where, when he turned around to face these white
boys, it’d feel like he was holding a tomahawk in his hand. It’d feel like his face
was painted in harsh crumbly blacksand whites, maybe a single nger-wide line
of red on the right side.
The years can just fall away, man.
“So,” Ricky said, his hands balled into sts, chestalready heaving, and turned
around to get this over with, his teeth clenched tight so that if he was turning
around into a st it wouldn’t rattle him too much.
But … no one?
“What the—?” Ricky said, cutting himself o because there was something,
yeah.
A huge dark form, clambering over a pearly white, out-of-place 280Z.
Not a horse, either, like he’d knee-jerked into his head. Ricky had to smile.
This wasan elk, wasn’t it? A big meaty spike, too dumb to know this was where
the people went, not the animals. It blew once through its nostrilsand launched
into the truck to its right, leaving the pretty sloped-down hood of that little
Nissan taco’d up at the edges, stomped all down in the middle. But at least the
car had been quiet about it. The truck the elk had slammed into was much more
insulted, screaming its shrill alarm loud enough that the spike grabbed onto the
ground with all four hooves. Instead of the twenty logical paths it could have
taken away from this sound, it scrabbled up across the loud truck’s hood, fell o
into the between space on the other side.
And now that drunk little elk was banging into another truck, and another.
All the alarms were going o, all the lights going back and forth.
“What is into you, man?” Ricky said to the spike, impressed.
The feeling didn’t last long. Now the spike was turned around, was barreling
down an aisle between the cars, Ricky right in its path, its head down like a
mature bull—
Ricky threw himself to the side, into another truck, setting o another
alarm.
“You want some of me?” Ricky yelled to the elk, reaching over into the bed
of a random truck. He came up with a jawless oversized crescent wrench that
would be a good enough deterrent, he gured. He hoped.
Never mind he was outweighed by a cool ve hundred pounds.
Never mind that elk don’t do this.
When he heard the spike blow behind him he turned already swinging,
crashing the crescent wrench’s round head into the side mirror of a tall Ford.
The big Ford’s alarm screamed, ashed every light it had, and when Ricky
turned around to shuing hooves behind him, it wasn’t hooves this time, but
boots.
All the roughnecks and cowboys waiting to get into the bar.
“He … he—” Ricky said, holding the wrench like a tire beater, every second
truck in his immediate area ashing in pain, and showing the pounding they’d
just taken. He saw it too, saw them seeing it: this Indian had got hisself
mistreated in the bar, didn’t know who drove what, so he was taking it out on
every truck in the parking lot.
Typical. Momentarily one of these white boys was going to say something
about Ricky being o the reservation, and then what was supposed to happen
could get proper-started.
Unless Ricky, say, wanted to maybe live.
He dropped the wrench into the slush, held his hand out, said, “No, no, you
don’t understand—”
But they did.
When they stepped forward to put him down in time-honored fashion,
Ricky turned, opped half over the 280Z he hadn’t trashed, endured a bad
moment when somebody’s reaching ngers were hooked into a belt loop, but
he spun his hips hard, tore through, fell down and ahead, his hands to the
ground for a few overbalanced steps. A beer bottle whipped by his head,
shattered on a grille guard right in front of him, and he threw his hands up to
keep his eyes safe, veered what he thought was around that truck but not
enough—his hip caught the last upright of the guard, spun him around, into
another truck, with another stupid alarm.
“Fuck you!” he yelled to the truck, to all the trucks, all the cowboys, just
North Dakota and oil elds and America in general, and then, running hard
down a lane between trucks, hitching himself ahead with more mirrors, two of
them coming o in his hands, he felt a smile well up on his face, Gabe’s smile.
This is what it feels like, then.
“Yes!” Ricky screamed, the rush ofadrenaline and fear sloshing up behind his
eyes, crashing over his every thought. He turned around and ran backward so
he could point with both hands at the roughnecks. Four steps into this big
important gesture he fell out into open space, kind of like a turnrow in a
plowed eld, caught his left boot heel on a rock or frozen clump of bullshit
grass, went sprawling.
Behind him he could see dark shapes vaulting over whole truck beds, their
cowboy hats lifting with them, not coming down, just becoming part of the
night.
“White boys can move …” he said to himself, less certain of all this, and
pivoted, rose, was moving again, too.
When the footfalls and boot slaps were too close, close enough he couldn’t
handle it, knew this was it, Ricky grabbed a berglass dually fender, used it to
swing himself a sharp and sudden ninety degrees, into what would have been
the truck’s long side, what should have been its side, but he was sliding now, he
was going under, leading with the slick heels of his work boots.
This was the kind of getting away he’d learned at twelve years old, when he
could slither and snake.
The truck was just tall enough for him to slide under, through the muck, his
momentum carrying him halfway across. To get across the rest of the truck’s
width, he reached up for a handhold, the skin of his palm and the underside of
his ngers immediately smoking from the three-inch exhaust pipe.
Ricky yelped but kept moving, came up on the other side of the truck fast
enough that he slammed into a beater that didn’t have an alarm. Two truck
lengthsahead, the dark shapes were pulling their best one-eighty, casting leftand
right for the Indian.
Duck, Ricky told himself, and disappeared, ran at a crouch that felt military,
like he was in a trench, like shells were ying. And they might as well be.
“There he is!” a roughneck bellowed, and his voice was far enough o that
Ricky knew he was wrong, that they were about to pile onto somebody else for
ten or twenty seconds, until they realized this was no Indian.
Ten trucks between him and them nally, Ricky stood to his full height to
make sure it wasn’t that Dakota dude catching the heat.
“I’m right here,” Ricky said to the roughnecks, not really loud enough, then
turned, stepped through the last line of trucks, out into the ditch of the narrow
ribbon of blacktop that had brought him here, that ran between the bar’s
parking lot and miles and miles of frozen grasslands.
So it was going to be a walking night, then. A hiding from every pair of
headlights night. A cold night. Good thing I’m Indian, he told himself, sucking
in to get the zipper on his jacket started. Cold doesn’t matter to Indians, does it?
He snorted a laugh, ipped the whole bar o without turning around, just
an over-the-shoulder thing with his smoldering hand, then stepped up onto the
faded asphalt right as a bottle burst beside his boot.
He inched, drew in, looked behind him to the mass of shadows that were
just arms and legs and crew cuts now, moving over the trucks.
They’d seen him, made his Indian silhouette out against all this pale frozen
grass.
He hissed a pissed-o blast of air through his teeth, shook his head once side
to side, and straight-legged it across the asphalt to see how committed they
might be. They want an Indian bad enough tonight to run out into the open
prairie in November, or would it be enough just to run him o?
Instead of trusting the gravel and ice of the opposite shoulder, Ricky took it
ata slide, let his momentum stand him up once his boot heels caught grass, then
transferred all that into a leaning-forward run that was going to have been a fall
even if he hadn’t caught the top strand of fence in the gut. He ipped over easy
as anything, the strand giving up its staples halfway through, just to be sure his
face planted all the way into the crunchy grass on the other side.
Ricky rolled over, his face to the wash of stars spread againstall the blackness,
and considered that he maybe should have just stayed home, gone to Cheeto’s
funeral, he maybe shouldn’t have stolen his family’s guns. He maybe should
have never even left the rez at all.
He was right.
When he stood, there was a sea of green eyes staring back at him from right
there, where there was just supposed to be frozen grass and distance.
It was a great herd of elk, waiting, blocking him in, and there was a great
herd pressing in behind him, too, a herd of men already on the blacktop
themselves, their voices rising, hands balled into sts, eyes ashing white.
INDIAN MAN KILLED IN DISPUTE OUTSIDE BAR.
That’s one way to say it.
THE HOUSE THAT RAN RED
FRIDAY
Lewis is standing in the vaulted living room of his and Peta’s new rent house,
staring straight up at the spotlight over the mantel, daring it to icker on now
that he’s looking at it.
So far it only comes on with its thready glow at completely random times.
Maybe in relation to some arcane and unlikely combination of light switches in
the house, or maybe from the iron being plugged into a kitchen socket while the
clock upstairs isn’t—or is?—plugged in. And don’t even get him started on all
the possibilities between the garage door and the freezer and the oodlights
aimed down at the driveway.
It’s a mystery, is what it is. But—more important—it’s a mystery he’s going
to solve as a surprise for Peta, and in the time it takes her to drive down to the
grocery store and back for dinner. Outside, Harley, Lewis’s malamutant, is
barking steady and pitiful from being tied to the laundry line, but the barks are
already getting hoarse. He’ll give it up soon enough, Lewis knows. Unhooking
his collar now would be the dog training him, instead of the other way around.
Not that Harley’s young enough to be trained anymore, but not like Lewis is,
either. Really, Lewis imagines, he deserves some big Indian award for having
made it to thirty-six without pulling into the drive-through for a burger and
fries, easing away with diabetes and high blood pressure and leukemia. And he
gets the rest of the trophies for having avoided all the car crashes and jail time
and alcoholism on his cultural dance card. Or maybe the reward for lucking
through all that—meth too, he guesses—is having been married ten years now
to Peta, who doesn’t have to put up with motorcycle parts soaking in the sink,
with the drips of Wolf-brand chili he always leaves between the coee table and
the couch, with the tribal junk he always tries to sneak up onto the walls of their
next house.
Like he’s been doing for years, he imagines the headline on the Glacier
Reporter back home: FORMER BASKETBALL STAR CAN’T EVEN HANG GRADUATION
BLANKET IN OWN HOME. Never mind that it’s not because Peta draws the line at
full-sized blankets, but more because he used it for padding around a free
dishwasher he was bringing home a couple of years ago, and the dishwasher
tumped over in the bed of the truck on the very last turn, spilled clotty rancid
gunk directly into Hudson’s Bay.
Also never mind that he wasn’t exactly a basketball star, half a lifetime ago.
It’s not like anybody but him reads this mental newspaper.
And tomorrow’s headline?
THE INDIAN WHO CLIMBED TOO HIGH. Full story on 12b.
Which is to say: that spotlight in the ceiling’s not coming down to him, so
he’s going to have to go up to it.
Lewis nds the fourteen-foot aluminum ladder under boxes in the garage,
Three Stooges it into the backyard, scrapes it through the sliding glass door he’s
promised to gure out a way to lock, and sets it up under this stupid little
spotlight, the one that all it’ll do if it ever works is shine straight down on the
apron of bricks in front of the replace that Peta says is a “hearth.”
White girls know the names of everything.
It’s kind of a joke between them, since it’s how they started out. Twentyfour-year-old Peta had been sitting at a picnic table over beside the big lodge in
East Glacier, and twenty-six-year-old Lewis had nally got caught mowing the
same strip of grass over and over, trying to see what she was sketching.
“So you’re, what, scalping it?” she’d called out to him, full-on loud enough.
“Um,” Lewis had said back, letting the push mower die down.
She explained it wasn’t some big insult, it was just the term for cutting a
lawn down low like he was doing. Lewis sat down opposite her, asked was she a
backpacker or a summer girl or what, and she’d liked his hair (it was long then),
he’d wanted to see all her tattoos (she was already maxed out), and within a
couple weeks they were an every night kind of thing in her tent, and on the
bench seat of Lewis’s truck, and pretty much all over his cousin’s living room, at
least until Lewis told her he was busting out, leaving the reservation, screw this
place.
How he knew Peta was a real girl was that she didn’t look around and say,
But it’s so pretty or How can you or—worst—But this is your land. She took it
more like a dare, Lewis thought at the time, and inside of three weeks they were
a nighttime and a daytime kind of thing, living in her aunt’s basement down
here in Great Falls, making a go of it. One that’s still not over somehow, maybe
because of good surprises like xing the unxable light.
Lewis spiders up the shaky ladder and immediately has to jump it over about
ten inches, to keep from getting whapped in the face by the fan hanging down
on its four-foot brass pole. If he’d checked The Book of Common Sense for stunts
like this—if he even knew what shelf that particular volume might be on—he
imagines page one would say that before going up the ladder, consider turning
o all spinny things that can break your fool nose.
Still, once he’s up higher than the fan, when he can feel the tips of the blades
trying to kiss his hipbone through his jeans, his ngertips to the slanted ceiling
to keep steady, he does what anybody would: looks down through this midair
whirlpool, each blade slicing through the same part of the room for so long now
that … that …
That they’ve carved into something?
Not just the past, but a past Lewis recognizes.
Lying on her side through the blurry clock hands of the fan is a young cow
elk. Lewis can tell she’s young just from her body size—lack of lled-outness,
really, and kind of just a general lankiness, a gangliness. Were he to climb down
and still be able to see her with his feet on the oor, he knows that if he dug
around in her mouth with a knife, there wouldn’t be any ivory. That’s how
young she still is.
Because she’s dead, too, she wouldn’t care about the knife in her gums.
And Lewis knows for sure she’s dead. He knows because, ten years ago, he
was the one who made her that way. Her hide is even still in the freezer in the
garage, to make gloves from if Peta ever gets her tanning operation going again.
The only real dierence between the living room and the last time he saw this
elk is that, ten years ago, she was on blood-misted snow. Now she’s on a beige,
kind of dingy carpet.
Lewis leans over to get a dierent angle down through the fan, see her
hindquarters, if that rst gunshot is still there, but then he stops, makes himself
come back to where he was.
Her yellow right eye … was it open before?
When it blinks Lewis lets out a little yip, completely involuntary, and
inches back, lets go of the ladder to wheel his arms for balance, and knows in
that instant of weightlessness that this is it, that he’s already used all his get-outof-the-graveyard-free coupons, that this time he’s going down, that the
cornermost brick of the “hearth” is already pointing up more than usual, to
crack into the back of his head.
The ladder tilts the opposite way, like it doesn’t want to be involved in
anything this ugly, and all of this is in the slowest possible motion for Lewis, his
head snapping as many pictures as it can on the way down, like they can stack
up under him, break his fall.
One of those snapshots is Peta, standing at the light switch, a bag of groceries
in her left arm.
Because she’s Peta, too, onetime college pole vaulter, high school triple-jump
state champion, compulsive sprinter even now when she can make time,
because she’s Peta, who’s never known a single moment of indecision in her
whole life, in the next snapshot she’s already dropping that bag of groceries that
was going to be dinner, and she’s somehow shriking across the living room not
really to catch Lewis, that wouldn’t do any good, but to slam him hard with her
shoulder on his way down, direct him away from this certain death he’s falling
onto.
Her running tackle crashes him into the wall with enough force to shake the
window in its frame, enough force to send the ceiling fan wobbling on its long
pole, and an instant later she’s on her knees, her ngertips tracing Lewis’s face,
his collarbones, and then she’s screaming that he’s stupid, he’s so, so stupid, she
can’t lose him, he’s got to be more careful, he’s got to start caring about himself,
he’s got to start making better decisions, please please please.
At the end she’s hitting him in the chest with the sides of her sts, real hits
that really hurt. Lewis pulls her to him and she’s crying now, her heart beating
hard enough for her and Lewis both.
Raining down over the two of them now—Lewisalmost smiles, seeing it—is
the nest washed-out brown-grey dust from the fan, which Lewis must have hit
with his hand on the way down. The dust is like ash, is like confectioner’s sugar
if confectioner’s sugar were made from rubbed-o human skin. It dissolves
against Lewis’s lips, disappears against the wet of his open eyes.
And there are no elk in the living room with them, though he cranes his head
up over Peta to be sure.
There are no elk because that elk couldn’t have been here, he tells himself.
Not this far from the reservation.
It was just his guilty mind, slipping back when he wasn’t paying enough
attention.
“Hey, look,” he says to the top of Peta’s blond head.
She rouses slowly, turns to the side to follow where he’s meaning.
The ceiling of the living room. That spotlight.
It’s ickering yellow.
SATURDAY
On break at work—he’s supposed to be training the new girl, Shaney—Lewis
calls Cass.
“Long time, no hear,” Cass says, his reservation accent a singsong kind of
pure Lewis hasn’t heard for he doesn’t know how long. In response, Lewis’s
voice, smoothed down at from only ever talking to white people, rises like it
never even left. It feels unfamiliar in his mouth, in his ears, and he wonders if
he’s faking it somehow.
“Had to call your dad to get your number,” he says to Cass.
“What happens when you move away for ten years, yeah?”
Lewis shifts the phone to his other ear.
“So what’s going?” Cass asks. “Not calling from jail, are you? Post oce
nally gure out you’re Indian, what?”
“Pretty sure they know,” Lewis says. “It’s the rst checkbox.”
“Then it’s her,” Cass says with what sounds like a grin. “She nally gured
out you’re Indian, enit?”
What Cass and Gabe and Ricky had told him when he was running o with
Peta was that he should get his return address tattooed on his forearm, so he
could get his ass shipped back home when she got tired of playing Dr. Quinn
and the Red Man.
“You wish she’d gure it out,” Lewis tells Cass on the phone, turning to be
sure Shaney, his shadow for the day, isn’t standing in the break room doorway
soaking all this in. “She even lets me hang my Indian junk on all the walls.”
“Like Indian-Indian,” Cass says, “or Indian just because an Indian owns it?”
“I called to ask a question,” Lewis says, quieter, closer.
Of Gabe and Ricky and Cass, Cass wasalways the one he could dial down to
“serious” easiest. Like the real him, the real and actual person, wasn’t buried as
deep under attitude and jokes and bluster as it was with Ricky and Gabe.
Not that Ricky, being dead, really has a telephone number anymore.
Shit, Lewis says inside.
He hasn’t thought about Ricky for nearly ten years now. Not since he heard.
The headline ashes in his head: INDIAN MAN HAS NO ROOTS, THINKS HE’S
STILL INDIAN IF HE TALKS LIKE AN INDIAN.
Lewis breathes in, covers the handset to breathe out, so Cass won’t hear it
across all these miles.
“Those elk,” he says.
After a long enough time that he can be sure Cass knows exactly the elk he’s
talking about, Cass says, “Yeah?”
“Do you ever …” Lewis says, still unsure how to say it, even though he ran it
through his head all last night and all the way in to work. “Do you ever, you
know, think about them?”
“Am I still pissed o about them?” Cass res right back. “I see Denny on re
on the side of the road, you think I stop to piss on him?”
Denny Pease, the game warden.
“He’s still on the job?” Lewis asks.
“Running the oce now,” Cass says.
“Still a hard-ass?”
“He ghts for Bambi,” Cass says, like that’s still in circulation all this time
later. It was what they all used to say about the game crew: anytime Man was in
the forest, all the wardens’ ears perked up, and their citation books apped
open.
“Why you asking about him?” Cass says.
“Not him,” Lewis says. “Just thinking, I guess. Ten-year anniversary, I don’t
know.”
“Ten years in, what, a week?” Cass says.
“Two,” Lewis says, shrugging like he doesn’t mean to have it all gured
down this precise. “It was the last Saturday before Thanksgiving, wasn’t it?”
“Yeah, yeah,” Cass says. “Last day of the season …”
Lewis winces without any sound, closes his eyes tight. The way Cass dragged
that last part outall suggestive, it’s the same as reminding Lewis it wasn’t the last
day of the season. Just, the last day they’d been able to all get together to hunt.
But it wasalso, as it turned out, the last day of their season in a dierent way,
he guesses.
He shakes his head three times like trying to clear it, and tells himself again
that no way did he see that young elk on the oor of his living room.
She’s dead, she’s gone.
To pay for her, even, the day before he left with Peta, he’d taken all the
packaged-up meat of her and gone door-to-door down Death Row, giving it to
the elders. Because she’d come from the elders’ section—the good country saved
back for them up by Duck Lake, so they could ll their freezers from the eld
instead of the IGA—because she’d come from there, it was all full circle and
Indian, hand-delivering the meat to their doors. Never mind that Lewis
couldn’t nd any of his meat stamps, had to use Ricky’s little sister’s stamps. So,
instead of STEAK or GROUND or ROAST, all the butcher paper the young elk was
wrapped in had a black raccoon handprint on it, because that was the only one
she had that wasn’t a ower or a rainbow or a heart.
But no way could that elk be coming up from thirty stew pots all this time
later, walking a hundred and twenty miles south to haunt Lewis. First because
elk don’t do that, but second because, in the end, her meat had got where it was
meant to get, he hadn’t even done anything wrong. Not really.
“Gotta go, man,” he tells Cass. “My boss.”
“It’s Saturday,” Cass says back.
“Rain nor sleet nor weekends,” Lewis says back, and hangs up more abruptly
than he means, holds the phone on its cradle for a full half minute before lifting
it back.
He dials in the number Cass’s dad gave him for Gabe. It’s Gabe’s dad’s
number, actually, but Cass’s dad had looked out the window, said he could see
Gabe’s truck over there right now.
“Tippy’s Tacos,” Gabe says after the second ring. It’s how he always answers,
wherever he is, whoever’s phone. There was never a place called that on the
reservation, as far as Lewis knows.
“Two with venison,” Lewis answers back.
“Ah, Indian tacos …” Gabe says, playing along.
“And two beers,” Lewis adds.
“You must be Navajo,” Gabe says right back, “maybe a sh tribe. If you were
Blackfeet, you’d want a six with that.”
“I’ve known some Navajo can at put it away,” Lewis says, a deviation from
the usual routine, like bringing it down, breaking it. For maybe ve seconds
Gabe doesn’t say anything, then, “Lewdog?”
“First try,” Lewis says, his face warming just to be known.
“You in jail?” Gabe asks.
“Still a comedian,” Lewis tells him.
“Among other things,” Gabe says back, then, probably to his dad, “It’s Lewis,
remember him, old man?”
Lewis doesn’t hear the reply, but does hear a basketball game cranked up
high enough to be blasting through the whole house.
“So what’s up?” Gabe asks when he’s back. “Need bus fare home, what? If so,
I can hook you up with somebody. Little light at the moment myself.”
“Still hunting?”
“That’d be under the ‘Among Other Things’ category, wouldn’t it?” Gabe
says.
Of course he’s still hunting. Denny’d have to work 24/7 to write up even
half of what Gabriel Cross Guns poaches on a weekly basis, and the rangers over
in Glacier would have to work even harder to nd his tracks, going back and
forth across the Park line, the return prints a couple hundred pounds deeper
than the ones sneaking in.
“How’s Denorah?” Lewis says, because that’s where you start after this long.
Denorah’s Gabe’s daughter by Trina, Trina Trigo, has to be twelve or
thirteen by now—she was walking around already when Lewis left, anyway,
he’s pretty sure of that.
“My nals girl, you mean?” Gabe says, nally all the way into this call, it feels
like.
“Your what?” Lewis asks all the same.
“You remember Whiteboy Curtis from Havre?” Gabe asks.
Lewis can’t dredge up Whiteboy’s actual last name—something German?—
but yeah, he remembers: Curtis, the baller, this naturally gifted farm kid who
was born for the court. He didn’t see it all with his eyes, he felt the game
through his feet like radar, and didn’t even have to think to know which way to
cut. And he had that basketball on a string, one hundred percent. Only thing
kept him from going college was his height, and that he insisted he was a power
forward, nota stop-and-pop sharpshooter. At high school height, sure, someone
just six-two could crash in, dominate as a power forward. And he had some
jumps, too, could rise up and ush it—only in pregame, with a lot of setup, but
still. In the end, though, he wasn’t built like Karl Malone, but like John
Stockton. Just, he couldn’t accept that, had the idea he could go inside at the
next level, bang his way through the bigs, not be a pinball bouncing o them.
Insisting he was that power forward, he’d lost so many teeth he looked like a
hockey player, last Lewis had heard. And the concussions weren’t exactly doing
anything good for his short-term memory. It would have been better for the rest
of his life if he’d never gured he could play.
Still?
“He had that jump shot,” Lewis says, seeing it again, the way Whiteboy
Curtis would just hang and hang, wait for everyone else to sink back down
before releasing the ball so perfect, his eyes laser-guiding it up and up, and,
nally, in.
“Denorah’s like that,” Gabe whispers, like the best secret ever. “Just, better,
man. Serious. Browning’s never seen nothing like her.”
“I should come watch her play,” Lewis says.
“You should,” Gabe says. “Just, don’t tell Trina I told you to come. Maybe
don’t even talk to her. If she looks at you? She does, maybe cut your hair,
change your name, jump on a ship.”
“She still out for blood?”
“Woman can hold a grudge,” Gabe says. “Got to give her that.”
“For no reason, of course,” Lewis says, leaning back on the usual lines again.
“So to what do I owe this call, Mr. Postman?” Gabe says then, being all fake
formal. “I forget to put a stamp on something, what?”
“Just been a while,” Lewis says.
“It was a while eight, nine years ago,” Gabe says. “You’re talking to me,
man.”
A lump forms in Lewis’s throat. He tilts his face back, closes his eyes.
“I was just remembering when Denny—”
“Fucked us permanent?” Gabe cuts in. “Yeah, something about that maybe
rings a bell or two …”
“You ever been back there by Duck Lake again?” Lewis asks.
“You have to have an old-timer with you,” Gabe says. “You know that, man.
How long you been gone again?”
“I mean where it happened,” Lewis says. “That drop-o place.”
“That place, that place, yeah,” Gabe says, driving a nail into Lewis’s heart.
“It’s haunted, man, didn’t you know? Elk don’t go there anymore, even. I bet
they even tell stories around the elk campres, right? About what went down
that day? Shit, we’re legends to them, man. The four boogeymen—the four
butchers of Duck Lake.”
“Three,” Lewis says. “The three boogeymen.”
“They don’t know that,” Gabe says.
“But you really think they might remember?” Lewis asks, just hanging it all
out there at last.
“Remember?” Gabe says, the smile one hundred percent there in his voice.
“They’re fucking elk, man. They don’t really have campres.”
“And we killed them all anyway, yeah?” Lewis says, blinking the heat from
his eyes. looking around again for Shaney.
“What’s this about?” Gabe says then. “You still missing that crappy knife,
what?”
Lewis has to strain to dial back to what Gabe’s saying: that trading-post knife
he’d bought, with the three or four interchangeable blades, one of them a weak
little saw, for the breastbone and pelvis.
“That knife was a piece of shit,” Lewis says. “If you nd it, lose it again fast,
yeah?”
“Will do,” Gabe says, his voice far from the phone for a moment, basketball
pouring into his end of the line. “Hey, we’re watching a—”
“I got to get gone, too,” Lewis says. “Nice hearing your dumb-ass voice
again, though.”
“Shit, I should charge by the minute,” Gabe says, and ten, twenty seconds
later the line’s dead again, and Lewis is standing there with his shoulder against
the wall, tapping the handset into his forehead like a drumstick.
“Should I be taking notes, Blackfeet?” Shaney asks from the doorway.
Lewis hangs the phone up.
Shaney’s Crow, so calling him “Blackfeet” is this running joke, their tribes
being longtime enemies.
“Something Peta said last night,” Lewis lies, always trying to be sure to
remind Shaney about his wife, and then say something about her again, just to
be sure. Not because he’s the ladies’ man of the USPS—there isn’t one—but
because him and Shaney are the only two Indians at this station, and for the last
week, ever since Shaney passed the background check and hired on, everybody’s
been doing that thing they do with armchairs or end tables when they match:
trying to push him and her together over in the corner, leave them there to be
this perfect set.
“Something your wife said?” Shaney asks, Lewis sliding past her, leading
them back to the big sorting machine. He icks it on to continue this lesson.
“We’ve got this crap light in the living room,” he tells her. “Won’t come on
when it’s supposed to. She thinks it might be a short in the wall. Was calling a
guy I know who does electrician stu on the side.”
“On the side …” Shaney repeats, and nudges an envelope this way into the
sorting machine instead of that way.
Lewis tracks that fast piece of mail up into the belly of the beast and shakes
his head with wonder when nothing catches, nothing crumples.
Shaney grins a mischievous grin, bites her lower lip in at the end of it.
“Next time,” she says, and hip-checks Lewis.
He rolls with it, doesn’t push back, is miles and years away.
MONDAY
Duckwalking backward on his stripped-down, double-throaty Road King that’s
about to nd its lope, Lewis clocks Jerry already at the edge of the post oce’s
parking lot, hanging his loose right hand down by the rear wheel of his custom
Springer, his index and middle ngers waggling in an upside-down peace sign
before they curl up into his fast st. Lewis has no idea what it means, never rode
with a real and actual gang like Jerry did in his Easy Rider youth, but it must
mean something like This way or All clear or Smoke ’em if you got ’em, because
Eldon and Silas throttle in right behind him, leaving Lewis to watch the back
door like always, even though where they’re headed is to Lewis’s new place way
the hell over on 13th.
Pecking order’s pecking order, though, and Lewis, even though this is his
fth year slinging mail, is still the new guy. Being last, though, that means that
when Shaney comes running out the side door, Lewis’s bitch seat is what she
jumps onto, barely making it.
Her hands fall perfect to his hips, her front to his back, and very much right
there.
“Hello?” he says, throttled down and wobbling.
“I want to see too,” she says, shaking her head and loosening her hair.
Yeah, this is exactly what Peta needs to clock pulling into the driveway.
Still, Lewis grabs the next gear, falls in line, having to goose it to stay with.
Why they’re all going to his place is because Harley, at nearly ten years old,
has taken to jumping the six-foot fence like a young dog, a fact Eldon says he’ll
only believe when he sees it. So, he’s going to see it. They all are, including,
now, Shaney.
Third in line is Silas, on his rattletrap scrambler that’s not good past fty, but
gets kind of fun at seventy-ve, if near-death experiences are your thing. Eldon,
snapping at Jerry’s heels, is on his slammed bobber, which he can only swing
because he lives close to the post oce, can walk in if the weather’s bad, so
doesn’t need to keep and insure a truck or a car. Of the four of them he’s the
only one not married, too, which frees up some funds, for sure. Jerry tells him
to just wait, though, it’ll happen—“They’ll drop sooner or later,” haw haw haw.
At fty-three, Jerry’s the oldest of them, and comes complete with the silver
handlebar stache, freckled-bald head, ratty ponytail, and icy blue eyes.
Silas is pretty much mute, and might even have some Indian in him
somewhere, Lewis thinks. Not enough to have been Chief before Lewis earned
that title, but … maybe as much Indian blood as Elvis had, however much that
is? Like, enough to ll up a pair of blue suede shoes? Eldon claims to be Greek
and Italian both, which is maybe a joke Lewis doesn’t quite get. Jerry doesn’t
claim to be anything other than in constant need of another beer.
It’s good to have found them, after losing Gabe and Cass and Ricky.
Well, after having left them.
No headlines about this. It’s just the same old news as ever.
The ve o’clock trac they slip past on River all cranes a bit to keep Shaney
in view ten or twenty feet longer. Meaning her button-up annel’s probably
untucked and apping, threatening to come o altogether.
Great.
Wonderful.
Lewis shouldn’t have said anything about Harley, he knows. It would be
better just to be headed home alone, to maybe sink a few free throws in the
driveway before Peta’s back. But—Harley, right? He’s not just not-young, he’s
actually pretty damn old for a dog his size, has been hit twice on the road, one of
those by a dump truck, and he’s been shot once, in the hip. And that’s just what
Lewis knows about. There’ve been snakebites and porcupines and kids with
pellet guns and all the usual dog ghting that any dog’s going to get up to.
No way should Harley be able to clear that fence. No way should he even
have a reason to try. Still, four times now Lewis has found him out in the road,
and Peta’s found him twice.
He must be jumping, maybe scrabbling a bit to get all the way over.
And Lewis should have kept it to himself.
Except?
Thinking and thinking about the young elk who couldn’t have been on his
living room oor, Harley barking it up outside, Lewis had nally made what
felt like a connection between the two. Could Harley have been barking at her,
at the elk? Can he see her without a spinning fan? Has she been there all along,
these past ten years?
Worse, if Harley can sense her, then is that what’s been driving him over the
fence? Maybe it’s notabout getting to all the dogs in heat out there or whatever.
Maybe it’s about getting away from the house.
Never mind that the lease is for twelve months and they lose the deposit if
they pack up, disappear.
“Hold on,” Lewis says back to Shaney, and rolls the throttle back to shoot
across the river, go weightless a bit over the train tracks on the other side, avoid
the way they always rattle his teeth not once but twice—one for each rail.
Shaney does a whoop from the thrill of it and Lewis gears down for the slow
turn onto 6th, gets all the way into fourth for the straight shot down American
Ave, taking the lead because none of these jokers have been to his new place.
Three fast turns later, maybe taking them a bit fast like to test Shaney, it’s his
driveway.
“This is it,” Lewis says into the sudden silence of no panheads, no V-twins.
Jerry and Eldon and Lewis all cock their bikes over, but Lewis waits for
Shaney.
“Oh yeah,” she says, placing her hands on his back and pushing o the seatall
at once, a dismount Lewis is glad he won’t have cycling through his head for the
rest of the week.
“So where’s this great ying dog already?” Jerry croaks.
“Close to your bedtime, Granddad?” Eldon says, just out of arm’s reach but
going boxer-light on his feet anyway.
Silas grins up at the front of the house, settles on a high window, Lewis
thinks. He studies it, too. It’s just his and Peta’s bedroom window, no curtains
yet.
“Well, mailboy?” Jerry says again.
It’s what he calls everybody, Lewis is pretty sure. Probably because names
have started slipping out of his head.
Lewis does the code for the garage, makes a show of tapping his shoes at the
door, then ushers them all into the World Famous Jumping Dog Show.
“He just started doing it,” he says on the way through the kitchen, walking
backward like a proper tour guide. “I always thought he had some wolf in him
maybe, along with sled dog or pit ghter. Now I’m thinking kangaroo.”
“Snow kangaroo,” Jerry says, the leathery skin around his eyes crinkling.
Silas snickers, running the tips of his ngers along the top of the table and
then looking at them like for grime.
“Dog needs what’s on the other side of the fence, that’s a dog’ll learn to
jump,” Shaney informs them all.
Jerry says something about this through his stache but it’s lost, and anytime
Lewis asks him for a repeat Jerry just waves it o.
“Where’s the little lady?” Eldon asks, clapping his big hand onto the back of
the couch.
“Making the big bucks,” Lewis says, miming the bright orange wands Peta
parks planes with, using them both to direct this little tour group to his right, his
right.
“Aren’t any big bucks in Great Fa—” Eldon starts to say, doesn’t get to nish,
some of Peta’s more lacy underthings suddenly drying on the back of a chair.
“Divert, divert,” Lewis tells him, waving him back with his make-believe
wands but smiling.
Still, “Nice,” Shaney says to Lewis and only to Lewis about the showy bra
when she passes.
Past her, thankfully, Silas has liberated the housing for the Road King’s
headlight assembly from the kitchen table, is holding it up to peer through it.
“Still looking for hard bags?” he asks.
“Got some?” Lewis says back, and ips the latch up on the sliding door.
“What color?”
“Because everything else matches so well?” Eldon cuts in.
“Foul, foul,” Lewis calls, shining his wands on him because evidently he’s a
ref now.
No, his bike doesn’t all match yet. But it will. He’s going to Pinocchio it up
from the rolling skeleton it is now into the real bike it wants to be. The hard
bags are what Peta’s insisting on, since, in a skid, they take the heat from the
asphalt, keep the esh and muscle on your leg and hip. Lewis tried telling her
that only matters for riders who lay it over, but that pretty much just warranted
a glare, not even a halfway grin.
“Anything about Silas’s scoot there suggest he’s got extra parts of any color
laying around?” Jerry says over his shoulder. “Any extra pieces, he just tacks
them on, don’t he?”
Silas’s bike right now is mid-transformation, somewhere between a cafe racer
and a twelve-year-old’s drawing of his dream bike, but he has to grin and shrug
about this, because it’s true.
Lewis twirls the sawed-o broomstick up from the sliding door’s track,
swishes the glass back dramatically, and presents the backyard to these
unbelievers, letting them go rst so they can see there’s no trickery involved.
How he knows Harley will be there instead of running wild from yard to
yard, it’s that he hooked Harley’s chain to the rusted baling wire of the laundry
line before work, like every morning. Last he saw, Harley was running back and
forth, he had a water pan, some shade, some grass, a clueless look on his face—
everything a dog could need. The laundry line isn’t a permanent solution, but
it’s solution enough until Lewis nds some hog-wire panels for the top of the
fence.
“Maybe he’s a pole vaulter like his momma,” Eldon calls back from the
uneven deck.
Lewis has bragged to them all about Peta, and Jerry and Silas have even met
her a couple of times when it was raining and she had to pick him up in the
truck.
“Or an escape artist,” Silas adds.
Lewis steps out after them, parts them to see from pole to rusted pole of the
laundry line, and he’s right: no Harley. Also, no baling wire running between
the poles anymore, to clip wet clothes to.
“I’m going to kill that dog,” he says, stepping out farther to make sure
Harley’s not just standing there watching the house, which is when Shaney,
over at the next corner of the back of the house, nishes that thought: “Think
you’re a little late for that, Blackfeet.”
With her lips she shows Lewis where to look, and from the way she’s not
joking, he gets a ash of warning, can feel regret washing up into his throat.
It’s Harley. He’s hanging by his chain from the top of the fence, eyes open
but not seeing anything, gouges and furrows clawed into the fence because it
took a while for him to strangle out, evidently.
“Well, shit,” Jerry says.
Harley was the rst gift Peta ever got Lewis, nine yearsago. One of her other
aunts’ dogs had thrown a litter, and the dad was supposed to have been a real
scrapper, and Lewis had already been talking about how the last good rez dog
he’d had, he’d been a kid, and a horse in the parade had kicked it in the head
while Lewis was grubbing for candy with the rest of the kids. So Harley, he’d
been perfect, almost made Great Falls feel like home that rst year—they grew
into it together. And now he’s dead on the chain Lewis tied him up with.
“Sorry, man,” Eldon says, studying the high-dollar boots he always changes
into for riding.
“Looks like he almost made it,” Shaney says for all of them, meaning they
believe Lewis about Harley having found springs in his legs late in life.
“Stupid dog,” Lewis says, keeping it short because he doesn’t trust his voice
not to break into pieces, choke him up.
And then one of Harley’s hind legs twitches once, exactly in rhythm
somehow with the way that elk on the living room oor blinked her eyes. The
elk that wasn’t dead on the oor of Lewis’s living room, that wasn’t alive on the
oor—that wasn’t there at all.
Lewis’s response to Harley being sort of alive isn’t the right response, isn’t
the response he’s proud of: he sucks air in and steps back, almost falls on his ass.
Of the ve of them it’s Silas who dives forward to hug on to Harley, lift him
up, get the pressure o his throat. Jerry reaches up with a meaty paw, unhooks
the chain from the top of the fence, and Shaney’s already guiding Harley’s
bloody collar up over his head, being careful of his ears.
Silas turns around, Harley cradled in his arms, and Lewis pulls his eyes away
for just a moment, nds himself watching Shaney, who’s maybe going to step
forward, hug Harley to her, but then she’s jerking back all at once, startled from
the wall of sound suddenly rushing at them all.
Eldon grabs Lewis’s shoulder like to pull him out of the way, or use him to
push o of, and even Jerry looks up faster than his walrus-looking self usually
does.
The whole backyard is shaking and loud and fast and dangerous, the kind of
sensory trauma where Lewis is pretty sure that, if there were a sprinkler
rainbowing a wall of water back and forth, that iridescent sheet of color would
collapse, turn to mist.
It’s the train that runs behind this neighborhood twice a day, what Peta calls
the Thunderball Express. It’s why her and Lewis can swing rent on a place with
a ceiling this high. It’s also why Harley can’t be getting out of the backyard
anymore.
Lewis looks up at the coal and grati smearing past, sees tomorrow’s
headline in his head: ONCE-LOCAL MAN CAN’T EVEN TOUCH HIS OWN DYING DOG.
Sometimes the headlines get it right. And the story on 12b this time, it’s
accompanied by a small out-of-focus black-and-white photograph Lewis’s mind
takes on reex, because he can’t really deal with it in the moment, what with the
train screaming past, tearing its necessary hole in the world: Harley’s mouth
yawning open, ashing teeth, snapping back at the source of what he thinks is
the cause of all this pain.
Silas jerks his face away right as the bite’s happening, right when Harley’s
teeth have hooked into the skin of his cheek, but that just makes it worse, really.
TUESDAY
Lewis is using little short tear-os of masking tape to outline a certain dead
animal on the carpet of the living room oor. It’s to prove that it couldn’t have
happened, that she wouldn’t have even t right there. That’s what he’s telling
himself anyway.
He’s got the couch shoved back, Peta’s grandmother’s antique coee table
pushed the other way. Peta’s family isn’t old-money Great Falls—is there any
such thing?—but they’ve been here in one way or another since about when the
original reservation was staked out.
She’s in the garage with Harley, on the nest of sleeping bags and blankets she
pulled together for him when she walked home from the make-do park-n-ride
two streets over, found Lewis and Shaney and Eldon on the back porch
dribbling water into Harley’s mouth. Jerry was gone in the truck, delivering
Silas to the hospital, his face packed in towels.
After they’d pulled away, Jerry driving easy, one hand on the wheel, the
other keeping Silas upright, Eldon said it gured that a mailman would get it
from a dog, right?
Right.
According to Peta, who spent most of her childhood nursing dogs and cats
and baby birds, Harley could still go either way. Silas was never in that kind of
danger—though, before he left, Lewis could see yellowy teeth through the
apped-open cheek skin.
Jerry says Lewis shouldn’t hold it against Harley. He didn’t know what he
was doing. When the whole world hurts, you bite it, don’t you?
Harley’s nest of sleeping bags and blankets were meant to be the insulation
around the sweat lodge Lewis had planned for the backyard, but screw it.
Maybe they still will be. Maybe, next year, wrapped in heat and darkness and
steam, Lewis will dip some water out of the bucket and tip a little out for
Harley. In memory of, all that.
You can do it for dogs the same as people, he’s pretty sure. And, if not, some
old chief gonna step down out of the sky, slap his wrist?
Lewis tears o another longish rectangle of masking tape, sticks it to the
carpet in front of the couch, then peels it up and sticks it again, trying to get the
slow turn down from the belly to the front of the back leg just right. Thing is,
these re-stuck sections of tape all curl up after a few minutes, like retracting
from the shape Lewis is forcing them to be part of.
The rear hoof is just starting to come together when Peta steps back in with
the dishrag over her shoulder, the bottle of goat milk in her hand, and for a slice
of an instant she’s a mom, tired from one in diapers, one just balancing around
on wobbly legs. But that’s another life than this one, Lewis reminds himself. She
doesn’t want kids, was up-front about that even those rst couple of weeks in
East Glacier. Not because Lewis is Indian, but because she thinks her pre-Lewis
self made enough bad decisions of the chemical variety that any kids she had
would have to pay that tab, so they’d be starting out with the world stacked
against them already.
The headline kicks up in Lewis’s head on automatic, straight out of the
reservation: not the FULLBLOOD TO DILUTE BLOODLINE he’d alwaysexpected if he
married white, that he’d been prepping himself to deal with, because who
knows, but FULLBOOD BETRAYS EVERY DEAD INDIAN BEFORE HIM. It’s the guilt of
having some pristine Native swimmers—they probably look like microscopic
salmon, even though the Blackfeet are a horse tribe—it’s the guilt of having
those swimmers cocked and loaded but never pushing them downstream,
meaning the few of his ancestors who made it through raids and plagues,
massacres and genocide, diabetes and all the wobbly-tired cars the rest of
America was done with, those Indians may as well have just stood up into that
big Gatling gun of history, yeah?
“How’s he?” Lewis says, tipping his head to the garage.
“I think it’s helping,” Peta says, holding the goat milk up.
According to one of the luggage guys at the airport, you can bring a parvo
puppy back with goat milk. Harley’s not that kind of sick, but if goat milk can
keep a puppy alive when its insides are turning to slurry, then surely it can do
something for a dog that spent most of yesterday dying and then coming back,
right?
It makes as much sense as anything.
At some point, though, and Lewis hates hates hates this, at some point, and
soon, it’s going to come down to a rie, and Harley’s last walk, or carry,
whatever.
It won’t be because Harley was a bad dog. It’ll be because he was the best
dog.
It’ll have to be the same rie from ten years ago, too. He’ll drive up to the
reservation to bum it o Cass, even—it’s the one he used for that young cow
elk. The cow elk he’s tracing out on the carpet with a hundred torn-o pieces of
masking tape.
“Need some help?” Peta says about this little project.
Any other person, any other woman, any other wife of a stupid husband
who’s trying to hide from his dying dog by outlining an elk on the living room
oor in masking tape, she’d tell him to quit messing her house up, to quit
wasting tape, to be sure and clean up every bit of that when he’s done.
Peta works her way down beside Lewis, takes the roll of tape, tears o
squares, and holds them up on her ngertips for when he’s ready.
Her theory about what he saw is that, the same way you can put lights on the
spokes of a bike and they’ll gel into a picture at speed and hold that blurry
glowing image, there must have been some random pattern of light and dark
dust on the back of the fan blades. They produced a kind of blob in all that
spinning, and Lewis just took it to his guilty place: that young elk.
About which, he hasn’t told her the whole story.
She’s vegetarian, and not for health reasons, but ethical ones. More nights
than not, he’s eating potatoes or tofu or beans. And that’s ne. Every middleaged Indian needs a diet exactly like this. So, Peta would listen to the whole
story, sure, and make the right noises, hold her eyes in a way that meant she was
getting it, but it would hurt her to hear it, and she’d have to go down to the high
school, run around and around the track to try to stay ahead of that story. It’s
better not to tell her all of it, then, not to burden her with it, scar her memory
up. Who knows, even? She might just stand up after hearing it, walk away, not
come back.
Twenty minutes later, maybe an hour, Lewis has the shape of the cow elk
more or less roughed out, emphasis on the “rough.”
He stands to see it from higher up, and has no clue how the bow-and-arrow
Blackfeet did it back in the day. The horses they drew into ledgers or onto the
sides of lodges weren’t anatomically accurate—neither’s this—but they did
suggest a sort of intimacy with the shape, with the form, that this masking-tape
elk doesn’t even come close to. It’s more like somebody told Lewis about an elk
than that he ever saw one in real actual life.
Peta covers her mouth with her hand to keep from laughing, and Lewis has
to smile as well.
“Looks like a ve-year-old tried to trace a giant sheep, doesn’t it?” he says.
“While he was working on his third beer of the morning.”
Peta collapses onto the pushed-back couch, pulls her legs up under her, adds,
“But the sheep kept kicking, trying to get away.”
“Sheep don’t know anything about art,” Lewis says, and falls into the couch
beside her.
From this position, he of course ends up looking through the fan from the
underside, and then at the little spotlight that’s dead again up there. It’s a
mystery he’s resigned to never solving. Some lights you never gure out, and
shouldn’t even try to.
“What next, then?” Peta asks.
For maybe thirty seconds Lewis doesn’t answer, then, “It’s stupid,” he nally
says.
“What?” Peta says. “You mean like climbing up a shaky ladder alone in the
middle of the day and almost cracking your head open?”
Point.
After stopping to say hey to Harley, tell him that Eldon’s covering the
morning shift, Lewis walks the tall aluminum ladder around the side of the
house again.
“It was here,” Peta says, positioning the ladder just shy of directly under the
fan.
“How can you tell?” Lewis asks.
To show, she pivots around to the other side, braces her feet wide to lower
the ladder down until the red plastic cap at the top ts perfectly into the wedge
slammed into the wall on the other side of the living room.
“Oh,” Lewis says. “Think we’re getting the deposit back?”
“Security deposits are overrated,” Peta says back, and maybe she really is
Indian, right?
“Wait,” Lewis tells her, and retreats to the garage, comes back from the chest
freezer with the trash bag that’s gone-with through six rental houses and one
never-nished basement.
It’s maybe going to smell. But maybe not.
“We still have that?” Peta says.
Lewis tries to open the bag but it’s more like peeling a plastic tamale, the
bag’s so old. Inside, kind of making his heart swell, is the hide he promised that
young elk to use someday, to make everything she went through worth it.
The story he told Peta was that it was snowing thick, and she’d looked like a
full-grown cow, not a teenager. That he never would have pulled the trigger if
he’d seen her right.
It’s not a complete lie. Just, it’s not the complete truth, either.
Lewis swallows the memory down, gets back to whatever this is he’s doing:
re-creating the scene of the crime? No. More like staging the accident all over
again. With, this time, props.
“Is it still … ?” Peta asks about the tight bundle of rolled elk hide, hair still on.
Lewis shrugs, doesn’t know about the hide, if it’s still all one piece, or
crumbly. It has a lot of nicks and holes, he knows, because, rst, he’s a crap
skinner, but second, that trading-post knife he was using only held its edge for
like three minutes.
Should he thaw it before unrolling it? Would the microwave work? Would
he ever be able to eat anything warmed in there again?
“I’ll just—” he says, and ceremonially sets the hide down in the middle of the
masking tape. It looks like a fat, hairy burrito, and Lewis has to focus to keep
from coughing, because that’ll turn into a gag, and he doesn’t want to be rude
to her memory.
“That’s probably good enough,” Peta says, sitting back and eyeballing the
hide, the tape, the whole setup.
“Well, then,” Lewis says, one foot already on the lowest rung, one hand up
higher.
“The fan’s at the same speed?” she asks.
“I haven’t messed with it,” he says. “You?”
She shakes her head no, nods for him to go, that she’s watching.
“I was on this rung,” he narrates, using his hand to touch where his foot was,
and then he’s going up, up.
He waits until the spinning blades of the fan are at his chest again to look
down through them. At Peta, on the couch. At a dead elk made of masking
tape, with a hairy burrito for a gut sack.
“Maybe it’s the light,” Peta says, and unfolds from the couch, backs into the
edge of the living room, where she was standing when Lewis started his big
slow-motion fall. “Am I making a shadow?” she calls up to him. She turns the
hall light on and o behind her, keeping her feet in the same place.
“You had a bag,” Lewis tells her, still holding on to the chance that this might
work, that there might be an explanation.
“O-kay …” she says, not as condent in this bag-possibility as he is, but all the
same, she bounds into the kitchen to dig one up.
While she’s gone Lewis looks over the top of the fan, at the gouge the ladder
left in the wall of the living room. The new wound in the house.
Moving there like an afterimage, like it was left behind, is just trying to creep
past without being seen, he’s ninety percent sure there’s the shadow of a person
up against that wall. A thin shadow, just for a icker of a moment.
A woman with a head that’s not human.
It’s too heavy, too long.
When it turns as if to x him in its wide-set eyes, he raises his hand to block
her vision, to hide, but it’s too late. It’s been too late for ten years already. Ever
since he pulled that trigger.
WEDNESDAY
What wakes him the next morning is … a basketball? Dribbling?
Lewis rolls out of bed and into the closest sweats, has to hold them up with
his left hand all the way down the stairs—the dryer ate their drawstring back
when they were brand-new.
There’s denitely someone dribbling a basketball in the driveway.
Lewis steps down from the kitchen into the garage, says to Harley, “Who is
it, bub?”
Harley thumps his heavy tail once against a Star Wars sleeping bag but that’s
all he can manage.
A neighbor kid, maybe? Did the former tenants tell all the kids on this street
that they can come over anytime, shoot hoops?
If so, cool. Lewis needs someone to play with who’s at his skill level. Playing
against Peta—doing anything athletic with her—is a study in shame, pretty
much. Even grabbing her waistband when she slides past, pushing her in the
back when she’s laying it up, he never can hit twenty-one before she does. He
can never even get to ten before she wins.
Lewis bumps the garage door button with the side of his st, his face pre-hard
because that’s what you do in what could be a trespassing situation, what could
be the former tenant, drunk, weaving back to the home he sort of remembers.
Slowly—it’s an old, heavy door—the sneakers out there become legs, then
shape into a woman, then become … Shaney?
She spins around, making room against an imaginary defender, and comes
back, rises into a fallaway that scissors her legs in the air, the back one touching
down just as the ball banks in, smooth as butter. She shags the rebound, claps
the ball between her hands like heads-up, and passes it across, a clean bounce
right on target.
Lewis catches it because the other option is getting popped in the gut with it.
“I wake you, early bird?” she says like a challenge.
“Day o,” Lewis says.
“To spend with him,” Shaney says back, going to Harley now that the door’s
open.
She cups his wide head in her hand, draws her nose to his, and squeezes her
eyes shut, keeps them like that.
“You smell it, don’t you?” Lewis says.
“He’s dying,” she says, massaging his notched ears.
She rolls into a sitting position on the unassembled sweat, says about Harley
and all his scars, “He’s an old warrior, isn’t he?”
“You come just to see him?” Lewis asks, trying not to make it sound
confrontational. She hears it anyway.
“Your wife wouldn’t want me here, right? White girls of red men are always
the most jealous of my kind.”
“Your kind?” Lewis says, though he kind of already knows.
“Indian, unattached, an ass like this,” Shaney goes on. “I know Jerry says I’m
bad news.”
The headline back on the reservation: BASEBALL BASEBALL BASEBALL.
“What’s her name about anyway?” Shaney asks. “She a white-girl tortilla, or
all against wearing animal skins, what?”
“Peta with an e, not an i,” Lewis recites, falling through Peta’s own
explanation. “She was supposed to have been a boy, her dad’s name is Pete, so he
put an a on his own name, handed it down.”
Shaney nods like she can track that, sure, and when she threads her bangs
away Lewis clocks that her left eye’s all bloodshot, and that—has he ever even
seen her forehead?—the skin above her eyebrow on that side’s drawn tight and
bumply, like from sudden contact with a dashboard, or an aerosol can
exploding in a burning pile of trash.
The eye, though. Bad date last night, Lewis has to think. Either that or the
wrong boyfriend. He doesn’t ask, tries not to be too obvious about looking.
Which pretty much means he telegraphs his thoughts word for word across to
her, he knows.
“Anyway, I came over for a book, Mr. Library,” she says, shaking her hair
back over her forehead and eye. “Not to jump your bones. Call her up, tell her
that, I’ll wait. My day o, too, yeah?”
Lewis looksat her about this, about the book thing, because usually this kind
of lead-in is the setup for some joke. Reading about wizards and druids at the
mall, or werewolves and vampires being detectives, it doesn’t exactly bump a
thirty-six-year-old’s cool meter up. And if anybody knew centaurs and
mermaids are sometimes part of it? Or demons and angels? Dragons?
Keep those book covers folded all the way back, Lewis knows.
Except here’s a girl actually asking to see them.
Even Peta doesn’t really understand the fascination, the compulsion, the
draw. How, camping, he always tucks a paperback or two in his pack, each
inside its own separate ziplock bag. She’sa super-athlete, though. She wasalways
running too fast or jumping too high to pick up reading. It’s nothing bad about
her.
Keep saying that, Lewis tells himself.
Keep saying that and dribble out from under the garage, into the bright
open sky. It’s that kind of November day.
“Anything particular?” Lewis says back to Shaney without looking, all his
fascination on the rim so he can come up onto his toes to shoot. What he has
planned is a trip to the bank, to show o, to match the shot she just made look
so easy, but then he has to collapse that idea at the last instant to keep his sweats
on his body. Nothing underneath.
“Nothing I haven’t seen before,” Shaney says. “Tall Indian choking on the
court, I mean.”
The ball’s bouncing through the junk lumber behind the goal. Lewis picks
through barefoot to retrieve it, nds an even worse way back to the concrete
pad.
“Court intrigue or heroic quests to save the realm?” Lewis asks. “Ships or
horses, elves or—”
“I don’t know, something exciting,” Shaney says. “First in a series, maybe?
Nice long series. Something to keep me busy all night.”
Can she ever just talk about one thing?
“You being serious?” Lewis asks, chest-passing the ball across to her slow
enough that she rips it from the air, like disgusted with the weakness of that
lackluster pass. Her billowy T-shirt snags the grabby ball when she whips it
across her midsection, though, so, pissed o about that, she bounces the ball
high and wrenches her armsaround behind her to tie her shirt, take up the slack,
then catches the ball back. Peta, in this situation, usually tucks the front of her
shirt up under her sports bra, but that isn’t really an option for Shaney today,
Lewis can tell.
“Oh,” she says, following the look Lewis doesn’t mean at her stomach.
It’sa long ragged scar up and down, not side to side and low like a C-section.
It’s an open-heart-surgery scar, just, too low for the heart, and with an ugly,
uneven ridge of scar tissue. Is this and whatever happened to her forehead and
eye a matching pair? One really bad night instead of a lot of pretty sucky ones?
Lewis wants to ask about that car crash, or ask if the baby made it, or if they
got the guy did this, except what if she was the only one to make it through that
wreck? What if the baby didn’t make it? What if that guy’s still out there,
carrying no scars himself?
“Say it,” Shaney says about the scar, “go ahead, I’ve heard them all. Did I go
to the emergency room or the butcher?”
She axles the ball between her two bird-ngers, rotating it with her thumbs,
keeping it between Lewis and her midri … as much blu as she has, she still
doesn’t much want him looking, he can tell.
“Can hardly even see it,” he one hundred percent lies. “Did—did
everything …”
Her eyes it up to the goal, and her non-answer is all the answer he needs,
and her story comes together in his head, glued together from all the other
stories he knows: she was young, the emergency room doc wasa reject from the
American medical system, so she ran from that tiny grave as far as she could,
which ended up being about one tank of gas away from her reservation.
“Sorry,” Lewis says. Not for seeing, but for whatever happened.
“We’re from where we’re from,” she says back. “Scars are part of the deal,
aren’t they?”
Lewis steps out onto the court proper, wading into this game.
“So you really want a book?” he asks, still sure this is some complicated joke.
“I read, yeah,” she says like insulted, shrugging one shoulder, dribbling up to
him and then turning around in invitation. One thing all guy ballers can learn
from how the girls play, it’s that trick right there: giving the defender your ass,
so you can protect the ball, slash out either way around them. Problem is, guys
always think it’s an ego thing, that it’s a bigger coup to face up, lock eyes, then
juke them any the hell way. And maybe it is. But the guys get their pockets
picked more, too.
Shaney presses right up to Lewis, dribbling far from her body so he can’t
reach around.
This would be a bad time for Peta to come strolling up, he knows. He might
as well be leaning around a barely halter-topped girl in the bar who’s pretending
not to know how to play pool. Peta won’t be walking up, though. She’s not o
work for hours yet, and even then, it’s a ten-minute hike in from the park-nride, her work duel slung over her shoulder, her ear protection slung around
her neck, the world so quiet to her, probably, after planes throttling up around
her all day.
Peta.
Lewis vows to keep her name in his head for the next few minutes.
Shaney leans right like she’s going to use her left to throw the ball ahead, a
long dribble that gets her into layup territory if she glides a bit, underhands it,
has that kind of touch, but then she’s twisting left already, and Lewis, like
always, like with Peta, falls for it. Shaney eels past, has had a coach really make
her get her footwork right, and the net’s already spitting the ball down.
“I had to hold my pants up,” Lewis calls out.
“No you didn’t,” Shaney says, and bounces the ball into the garage, well
away from both Harleys: the dying dog and the parked Road King. “Now, book
me, ocer.”
It takesa second for Lewis to get that. And he’s fully aware she just smuggled
“handcus” into his head. He leads her in all the same, one hand clutching his
sweats, and when he makes the turn up the stairs, Shaney’s still back at the
kitchen table.
“Blackfeet?” she’s saying.
She’salmost touching the rolled elk hide on the table, and she either just said
her name for Lewis, or she’s asking if this hide is from the reservation.
“What?” Lewis says, stopped with his non-sweats-hand gripping the newel
post at the turn upstairs.
“I didn’t know,” she says, looking across to him with new eyes. “You’re a—
you’re a bundle holder? They let it come all the way down here?”
From the look on his face, she explains: “It’s like a pipe holder. Just, with a
bundle.”
“Oh, that’s just—” Lewis begins, doesn’t nish. “I didn’t really grow up
traditional.”
“Think tradition found you just the same,” she says, impressed, and almost
touches the outermost brown hairs, then draws back like afraid of what might
happen, what might pass from this Blackfeet bundle to her Crow self.
It’s just an elk hide, Lewis doesn’t say. Mostly because now she’s drifted over
to the couch, can see the masking-tape insult to all elk on the carpet of the living
room. She looks from it to him then back, and, without saying anything, she’s
there, has the masking tape, is tearing o a few long strips, axing them to the
side of the couch. They look like long, careful shavings of wood, curling up.
Lewis doesn’t say anything, just steps over like caught, a hundred possible
explanations swirling through his head, all of them built to fail.
Moving deliberately, Shaney applies the long strips to the carpet, not adding
to the elk, but giving it some insides—that inward-going tube of an arrow Lewis
hasalways seen on lodgesand in ledgers, that ducks back from the mouth to the
stomach, for reasons he’s never had clue one about. Why would the esophagus
and stomach be more important than the heart, the liver?
“Now it’s right,” Shaney says.
It is. It was a smushed sheep before. Now it’s … not so much a young cow
elk, but a shape that somehow represents a young elk better than even an actual
young elk, lying right there.
“How’d you know?” Lewis asks.
“You asking that because I’m a girl?”
“It was just a blob with legs,” Lewis tells her.
Now she’s looking to the ladder, to the nothing happening on the ceiling.
“My books are—” Lewis tries, but this isn’t a library visit anymore.
“Why do this here, by the couch?” she asks just generally, coming back
around to x him in her thirsty eyes. She opens her hand to the masking tape
elk, leaves her ngers spread like that.
“Wherever I did it, that could be the question,” Lewis says, stalling.
“But you did it here, not anywhere else,” Shaney says back, not pushing this
time, but eliciting.
“It’s stupid,” he says, sitting down on the third step of the stairs. “Just
something I thought I saw the other day.”
She leans back onto the arm of the couch, her eyes still locked on him, says,
“Which was?”
“It’s not like in the books,” Lewis says. “When you—when you see
something that doesn’t t, like.”
“Like a werewolf digging through your trash,” she completes for him,
hauling his current book up from the coee table and showing him the cover,
which is … a werewolf digging through a dumpster, trash strewn all over the
alley.
Lewis nods, even more caught, his hands cupped over his mouth, his breath
hot on his palms.
Is he really about to tell her? Does the hot girl from work get to know what
his wife doesn’t?
But she knew how to nish that elk on the oor, didn’t she? That has to
mean something. And—Lewis hates himself for saying it, for thinking it, but
there it is: she’s Indian.
More important, she’s asking.
“It was the winter before I got married,” he says. “Six—no, five days before
Thanksgiving, yeah? It was the Saturday before Thanksgiving. We were
hunting.”
“We?” Shaney prompts.
“Guys I grew up with,” Lewis says with a shrug, like they’re not the real
focus. “Gabe, Ricky, Cassidy—Cass.”
Shaney nods like he’s doing good so far, and looks over to the masking tape
elk again, kind of for both of them it feels like, and then Lewis is talking, is
confessing, is saying it all out loud for the rst time, which must mean it really
happened.
THAT SATURDAY
The sky was spitting these hard little snowballs that kept catching in Lewis’s
girly eyelashes that he always thought were maybe just normal eyelashes.
“Wearing mascara now, princess?” Gabe asked all the same, bumping over
into him. “Gonna bat your eyes, bring all the big bulls to your door?”
“You should talk,” Lewis said, lifting his chin to Gabe’s own frosted
eyelashes.
O-rez, people always used to default-think that Lewis and Gabe were
brothers. Gabe, at six-two, had always been a touch taller, but otherwise, yeah,
sure. In John Wayne’s day Lewis and Gabe would have been scooped up to die
in a hail of gunre, would have been Indians “16” and “17,” of forty. Cass,
though? Cass would have been more the sitting-in-front-of-the-lodge type, the
made-for-the-twentieth-century type, maybe even already wearing some early
version of John Lennon shades. Ricky, he’d be Bluto from Popeye, just, darker;
put him in front ofa camera, and all he could hope to play would be the Indian
thug o to the side, that nobody trusts to remember even half a line. Of Lewis
and Gabe and Cass, though, he was the only one who could struggle out a sortof beard, if he made it through the itchy part, and didn’t have a girlfriend at the
time. “Custer in the woodpile” was the excuse he would always give, smoothing
his rangy fourteen hairs down along his cheeks like Grizzly Adams.
Gabe leaned across to Lewis, making smoochy lips, saying, “A little irting
would probably work better than what we’re—” but then Cass, ahead of them
at the truck, raised his left hand, silencing them.
“What you got?” Ricky asked, coming back.
He was always ranging out to the side, sure they were just missing a whole
herd, that all the elk were single-ling it past just out of sight, ducking their
heads down so their racks wouldn’t crest over the snow.
“Shh,” Cass said, coming down to one knee to read sign like a real Indian.
Tracks.
Elk had been nosing into the bed, probably remembering that some trucks
carry hay, and hay never gets all the way gone. Not without elk that are tall
enough to lean over the side of the truck, that have long enough necks to even
get under the toolbox for every last straw.
“Heavy guys,” Gabe said, lowering down to insert a trigger nger into the
deep hoofprint. He had some complicated method where a bull weighed this
much if it was up to his second knuckle, that much if it was halfway past that,
but Lewis never bought it.
“Told you they were up here,” Ricky said, looking all around like these elk
might be turned around at the tree line like a stupid whitetail, to twitch their
tails and watch.
“Up here” wasn’t high-high, snowmobile or horse country, but halfway
there, anyway, just down from Babb, over toward Duck Lake. With the weather
moving in, the elk should have been ling down from the timber, to wait the
big snow out. The idea was to meet them halfway.
“This is some bullshit,” Cass said, his usual call, and Ricky responded with
his obligatory line, “Literally,” toeing over a fresh black mound, the pellets
more tapered at one end, not both. Nine times out of nine, that’ll mean “bull,”
not “cow.”
“They’re playing with us,” Gabe said, reseating his rie strap on his shoulder.
“Catch me if you can,” Lewis said for the bulls and then lined up on the
walking-away tracks, his eyes going downhill with them, downhill, to—
“Shit,” Cass said, turning around to kick snow.
“They know,” Ricky said with a chuckle, impressed.
“Tricksy, tricksy …” Lewis said, smacking his gum too loud, and Cass cut his
eyes over at him, not sure he’d heard that word right but not wanting to ask,
either.
Gabe didn’t say anything, just kept watching where the big bulls had gone—
where they were.
“Anybody pack some grey braids in with their bear kit?” he nally said with
his trademark grin, the one that usually ended up either getting beat in by the
end of the night or looking out through bars. Sometimes both. A hundred years
ago he would have been the guy always trying to get a raiding party together to
sneak over the line, have some fun, come hell-for-leather home in the morning
with half of America massed up right behind.
“No, man,” Ricky said, hiseyes hot so he could really mean this, really drill it
in. “If we get caught over there, it’s—”
“Then let’s not get caught, what say?” Gabe said, looking from face to face
like polling a jury.
“We can’t,” Lewis said to Gabe about the o-limits section. “Ricky’s right, if
Denny catches us again, then he’ll—”
“It’s not fair though,” Cass whined, icking something o the end of his
nger and watching it y. “That section’s reserved for elders, but what if none
of the elders are even hunting it, right?”
“Old guys get up early,” Gabe threw in, like just seeing this brilliant point.
“If they were going to hunt their section today, they’d already have been and
gone. We’ll just be cleaning up the ones they weren’t going to shoot. No big.
Cassidy’s right.”
“Cass,” Cass said.
“Whoever he is today, he’s right,” Gabe corrected, setting his feet to take
Cass’s elbow.
It wasn’t that the elders’ section was all the way o-limits, it was that only
elders—plus one and only one—could use trucks to get in and out. Anybody
younger was supposed to hoof it, which would be a two-hour walk in at least,
and it was already an hour and a half after lunch, with the sun going down just
after four, and taking the thermometer with it.
“Elders aren’t the only ones with empty freezers,” Cass said with an obvious
shrug. “Anyway, it’s my truck. You three bail, I take the heat.”
When Ricky didn’t say anything, Lewis just looked away, down to the elders’
section again.
It was some good-ass country around Duck Lake, no two ways about that.
And Gabe knew every logging road, every two-track, every old game trail that’d
been widened out by four-wheelers and chain saws. And it does suck to be the
only Indian without an elk.
“Last day of the season …” Gabe pled to all of them.
Technically it wasn’t, but it was the last time they could come out for a
whole Saturday like this together. There would still be lunch breaks on their
own, though, eating and driving down some road somebody maybe saw an elk
walking alongside. There would still be being late to work because of a set of
deep tracks crossing from ditch to ditch. But Lewis heard what Gabe was saying,
what he wasarguing: the last day of the season, the rulesare dierent. Anything
goes. Whatever lls your freezer. You’ve put in enough days out in the cold and
the snow that you feel like the elk owe you, almost.
Included in that are any moose or mulies you might jump along the way.
“Shit,” Lewis said, because he could feel himself starting to cave.
“That’s back where you found Junior, enit?” Cass said to Ricky, but Ricky
was watching the trees again, always seeing an ear twitch where there were no
ears.
Cass was talking about when Ricky found Junior Big Plume oating
facedown in Duck Lake, and was reservation-famous for the weekend.
“Shut up,” Ricky said, his hunting face all the way on, which was pretty
much just a cigar-store Indian mask. Still, Cass let it drop.
Gabe took advantage of the silence to take a long read of all the faces, all the
eyes, all the weak, weak spines. “Well, the elk aren’t going to shoot themselves,
gentlemen,” he nally said, satised with what he’d seen, evidently. He hauled
his rie around to clear the chamber, Cass’s rule since the new hole in the front
oorboard of his truck, the hole Gabe insisted Cass would thank him for come
summer, which is right where Lewis would like to freeze-frame that day, just
stop it completely, hang it on the wall, call it “Hunting” or “Snow” or “Five
Days Before Turkey and Football.”
But he can’t. The rest of the day was already happening, had already pretty
much happened right when Gabe kept looking downhill, to where he said the
elk were.
“Was he right?” Shaney asks, her legs tucked under her to the side like a
traditional.
Lewis chuckles a sick chuckle, says, “About the elk not shooting themselves?”
Shaney nods, and Lewis looks away, says Ricky was right too.
“About what?” Shaney asks.
“Getting caught.”
Since Cass’s squarebody crew cab didn’t have a winch, each time he couldn’t tell
where the road was and slogged out into the soft stu, everybody had to pile out
again, take turns on the stretched-out come-along, the other two digging with
planks and trying to do some magic or other with the jack, one person behind
the wheel to feather the accelerator and work the shifter, keep the truck rocking
back and forth.
Four separate times at least, certain death loomed, but either that wobbly
high-lift sliced down into uy snow instead of crunchy skull, or the comealong hook snapped back over the cab of the truck, instead of through any faces.
It was so funny even Lewis was laughing.
It didn’t feel like anything could go wrong.
Sure, yeah, he wanted an elk and wanted it bad, but all the same, this was
what hunting is about: you and some buds out kicking it through the deep
snow, your breath frosted, your right-hand glove forever lost, your Sorrels wet
on the inside, Chief Mountain always a smudge on the northwest horizon, like
watching over all these idiot Blackfeet.
At least until they got to where it happened.
It was a steep hill, maybe a half mile in from the lake. The big snow was
already crowding in, pushing the wind ahead. That’s the only thing Lewis has to
explain how the elk didn’t hear Cass’s Chevy struggling through the snow. The
squirrels had been chattering about it, the few birds that were still out were
annoyed enough to glide to farther-and-farther-away trees, but the elk, maybe
because of that wind in their faces, they were oblivious, just trying to chomp
whatever they could, since it was all about to be buried.
Looking back, Lewis tells Shaney that the one thing that could have maybe
saved them was some horses, the wild ones that were always showing up in the
least expected places all over the reservation, their eyes wide and crazy, their
manes and tails shaggy and tangled. If four or ve of them had pounded
through on some important horse mission or another, that might have spooked
the elk, or at least got them listening closer, smelling harder, paying better
attention.
But there were no horses that day. Only elk. What happened was the same
thing as had been happening the last half mile: Cass lost the road again, in spite
of Gabe guaranteeing that it turned here, here, here. Instead of trying to back
up and nd the road again, though, Cass drove into this wrong direction, his
foot deep in the pedal, the wheels already churning for purchase, the only thing
keeping the truck going its own sagging momentum.
“Going for the record, going for the record here …” Gabe said, lifting his
butt o the seat like he was the thing weighing them down, and, in the back,
Ricky rocked forward, trying to help the truck along. Sitting beside him, Lewis
wondered what the penalty was just for being in the elder section. But he knew:
nothing, so long as you’re not ried up. If you are carrying, though? Denny
throws the key away.
“We’re gonna make it, we’re gonna make it!” Cass said, one hand on the
wheel, the other to the four-wheel-drive shifter to tap the transfer case into high
should they be so lucky as to need it. What he was doing, not exactly on
purpose, was driving from one part of an S-curve in the road to the other, snow
ying every which direction, the tires spinning great white rooster tails of it up
and over, some of it probably not even landing, just hitching a ride on the
wind, to sift down over Cutbank or Shelby—somewhere so far away from this
as to, right then, just be a legend, pretty much.
“Shit, shit,” Lewis said, hooking a second hand through the grab strap,
straightening his legs against the oorboard even though he knows that’s the
wrong way to take a jolt. It was just instinct to brace himself, though. Three
times already they’d barely missed a lichen-shadowed boulder left behind by
some glacier twenty thousand years ago. They had to be owed one right in the
grill-teeth sooner or later, right?
Instead of that granite stop sign, what they almost drove onto and down into
was open space.
Cass didn’t have to hit the brake, he just had to stop gunning the truck
forward.
“What the hell?” Ricky said, not able to see from the backseat. Lewis, either.
The engine sputtered out, dropping them into a vast silence.
“Good one,” Cass said, disgusted, trying to clear his side of the windshield,
nally cranking his window down instead, and Lewis was just thanking any
gods tuned in right now: they should be a smoking wreck at the bottom of this
drop-o.
“Shh, shh,” Gabe said to them all then, and leaned forward over the dash,
looking down and down.
And then.
“What?” Shaney asks.
Then Gabe reached over for his rie, his ngers coming into place on the
pistol grip one by delicate one, like all four at once might be too loud.
What Lewis remembers clearest about the next sixty seconds, maybe closer to
two impossible minutes, is the way his heart clenched in his chest, the way his
throat lled with … with terror? Is that what too much joy and surprise can ball
up into, when it comes at you all at once?
There was the instant sweat, his head full of sound, his eyes letting in too
much light for his head to process. It was like … he doesn’t have words for it,
really. “That ght or ight rush,” he tells Shaney, only, running wasn’t even a
distant option. It was what he’d always imagined war to be like: too much input
all at once, his hands acting almost without his say-so, because they’d been
waiting for this moment for so long, weren’t going to let him miss it.
Gabe either.
He popped the handle of his door, rolled down into the snow smooth as
anything, his rie whipping out after him.
Following his lead, nobody said anything, just fell in, Ricky coming out his
door, Cass trying to jam the truck into Park so it wouldn’t roll over the rock lip
it was teetering on.
The door on Lewis’s side opened like a whisper, like fate, and when he
committed his right foot down to the powdery surface that ended up being two
feet deep, he just kept falling, his chin stopping a hand’s width into the powder
the front tires had churned up. His forward motion never faltered, though. He
crawled ahead like a soldier, pulling with his elbows, his rie held ahead to keep
the barrel clear.
And—that was when the frenzy washed over him.
He’d seen big herds in the Park, over at Two Dog Flat, had seen them in
spring over by Babb, bounding across the road at night, but this many huge
perfect bodies against all that stark white was something he’d never seen this
close before. At least, not with a rie in his hands, and no tourists around to
snap pictures.
Gabe’s rie going o was distant, was down at the other end of some long,
long tunnel.
Lewis, knowing that this was how you got to be a good Indian, nally
remembered how to jack a round in. Once it was seated, he pulled that Tasco up
until it cupped his right eye, and he was ring now as well, and ring again, just
waiting to pull the trigger until he could see brown in the crosshairs. Just
anywhere near the crosshairs—how could he miss?
He couldn’t.
Three rounds, then he was rolling over, digging in his pants pocket for shells,
and the elk, trained in the high country, the sharp drop in front of the truck
throwing the sound every which way, their rst instinct was to crash uphill, to
what was supposed to be safety.
On the other side of the truck Ricky was screaming some old-time war
whoop, and Gabe maybe was too, and so was Lewis, he thinks.
“You couldn’t hear if you were or not?” Shaney asks.
Lewis shakes his head no, he couldn’t.
But he does remember Cass standing behind his opened door, his rie
stabbed through the rolled-down window, and he’s just shooting, and shooting,
and shooting, only stopping to thumb another round in, and another, one of
them launching onto the dash and clattering the whole way across, hissing
down into the snow by Lewis.
“We could have fed the whole tribe for a week on this much meat,” Lewis
says, his eyes hot now. “For a month. For the whole winter, maybe.”
“If you were that kind of Indian,” Shaney says, getting what he’s saying.
“There’s more,” Lewis says, nally looking to the masking-tape elk on his
living room oor.
In the hollow deafness after all this, the four of them stood there on that rocky
ledge, the snow skirling past, the weather almost on them, and Gabe—he always
had the best eyes—counted nine huge bodies down there in the snow, each
probably pushing ve hundred pounds.
Cass’s Chevy was a half-ton.
“Shi-it,” Ricky said, breathing hard, smiling wide.
This was the kind of luck that never happened, that they had only ever heard
about. But never like this. Never a whole herd. Never as many as they could
bring down.
“Okay there?” Gabe said across to Lewis, and Cass reached up with the side
of his nger, dabbed at Lewis’s right eye.
Blood.
Before, when he’d had scope-eye as a kid—when the scope had recoiled back
into his eye orbit—he’d felt that shock wave move in slow motion from the
front of his head to the back. It makes your brain fluid for a slowed-down
moment, leaves you scrambled, and because of that you can never remember
what exactly it is you’re doing to make this scope-eye happen. Except the
obvious: pressing it right up to your eye, pulling the trigger.
This time Lewis remembered every shot, the lead-on-meat slap of every slug,
but never even felt the force of that sudden recoil going from front to back
through his head.
Five years after this a dentist will look at his X-rays and trace out the bone
evidence of this trauma around his right eye and ask was it a car wreck, maybe?
“Almost,” Lewis will tell him. “But it was a truck.”
The last time he saw Cass’s Chevy, it was up on blocks by a barbed-wire fence
over at a high place north of Browning, the windshield caved in, the hood
yawning open like a long scream. The engine must have been good enough,
otherwise it would have still been there. The wheels and tires had been yanked
as well. After Lewis left that part of the country for what he secretly knew was
going to be forever, the rst cinder block holding that truck up went soon
enough, he imagines, a rust-coated brake drum crumbling down through that
stony grey, making the truck look like a horse kneeling, and after that it would
have been fast. The land claims what you leave behind.
That day with all the elk, though, back then the Chevy was still on its rst or
maybe second life, was young and hungry, was telling the four of them it could
carry as many elk as they could pile in. Realistically, even just three elk in the
back of a half-ton is pushing it, is going to have that truck sitting down on its
springs, the nose pointing at the sky, the front brakes useless.
And that was if the stupid come-along was going to cooperate, help get those
heavy bodies up the slope, and if four Indians without gambrels or cherry
pickers could somehow get the second and third elk in on top of the rst.
“And that’s when it started snowing heavy,” Lewis tells Shaney, touching his
face with his ngertips like feeling those cold dabs again.
She doesn’t say anything, is just watching, soaking all this in. Not because she
wants to know, Lewis doesn’t think, but … is it more like she knows he needs to
say it? To have told someone, at least?
“Old-time bualo jump!” Gabe called out then, and he vaulted right the hell
o the ledge, slid on his ass down into that jumble of dead and dying elk.
Lewisand Ricky and Cass picked their way down after him, unsheathed saws
and knives, and got to work. Inside of ve minutes it was clear this was going to
be a haunches-only aair—already big wet akes were nding their way into the
red body cavities, dissolving instantly against that steamy heat. But pretty soon
the akes were going to start winning that little war, no longer melting but
piling up, making these carcasses look like giant stued animals slit open, all
their batting leaking out.
Gabe and Cass doubled up on the one bull that fell, trying to keep his cape
intact, since Gabe knew a back-alley taxidermy guy who’d do a mount for meat,
so long as he picked the cuts. Ricky was on a monologue about how this
Thursday, Thanksgiving, was going to be an Indian holiday this year, with the
four of them bringing in a haul like this.
“Thanksgiving Classic,” Gabe said, giving what just happened a proper
name.
Cass whooped once, setting that name in place.
Lewis whipped his hand over his head about the cow he’d just dressed out in
record time—it’s a rodeo thing, is deep in his DNA—and moved on to the
next, the young cow, but when he dropped to his knees to make that rst cut
from her pelvis to her sternum, she found her front legs, tried to climb up out
of the snow.
Lewis fell back, called over to Cass for a rie. He never once looked away
from this young elk, though. Her eyes, they were—don’t elk usually have
brown eyes? Hers were more yellow, almost, branching into hazel at the edges.
Maybe it was because she was terried, because she didn’t understand what
was happening. Just that it hurt.
The shot that brought her down had caught her midway through the back,
from the top, and taken her spine out. So her rear legs were dead, and her
insides were going to be a mess as well.
“Whoah, whoah,” Lewis said to her, feeling more than seeing Cass’s rie
plunk into the snow just short of his right leg. He felt down for it, that young
elk still struggling, blowing red mist from her nostrils, her eyes so big, so deep,
so shiny.
“And I couldn’t nd a shell,” Lewis says to Shaney. “I thought I was out, that
I’d used my last up by the truck, when everything was crazy.”
“But you had one,” Shaney tells him.
“Two,” Lewis says back, looking down at his hands.
This close he didn’t need the scope or a sight.
“Sorry, girl,” he said, and, careful of his swelling-up eye, lined the barrel up,
pulled the trigger.
The sound was massive, rolling up the slope and then crashing back down.
The young elk’s head opped back like it was on a hinge, and she sank into
the snow.
“Sorry,” Lewis said again, quieter, so Cass couldn’t hear.
But it was just hunting, he told himself. It was just bad luck for the elk. They
should have bedded down with the wind in their favor. They should have
pushed through to some section the hunters didn’t have access to—that trucks
can’t get to, anyway.
After the shot, Lewis looked behind him for some buckbrush or something
to hang the rie from, but then a sound brought him back to the young elk.
The sound was the crust of snow, crunching.
She was staring at him again. Not dead. Her breath was raspy and uneven,
but it was denitely there, somehow, when no way should it have been. Not
after having her back broken, half her head blown to mist.
Lewis took a long and involuntary step back and fell, jammed the butt of the
rie down just ahead of hisass so he could be sure where the barrel was going to
be, because he didn’t want it driving up under his head, trying to separate his
jaw from his face.
She was trying to stand again was the thing, never mind that the top of her
head was missing, that her back was broken, that she should be dead, that she
had to be dead.
“What the hell?” Cass called over. “My rie’s not that o, man.”
He laughed, leaned back down into the big cow he was insisting was his.
Lewis had his right leg straight out in the snow, was feeling in all his pockets for
one more shell, please.
He found it, ran it into the chamber, working the bolt back and forward to
be sure the cartridge seated right. This time, talking to the young elk the whole
while, promising her that he was going to use every bit of her if she would just
please die, he nestled the barrel right against her face, so the bullet would come
out the lower back of her skull, plow into her back where she’d already been
shot once.
Her one yellow eye was still watching him, the right one haywire, the pupil
blown wide, looking somewhere else, someplace he couldn’t see without
turning around.
“So that’s where I put the barrel this time,” Lewis says to Shaney. “I gured
—I don’t know. That rst shot must have glanced o her skull, right? Looked
worse than it was. So this time I didn’t want to give it any chance to bounce o.
The eye could be like a tunnel in—into her.”
Shaney doesn’t blink.
“You were gonna be a tough one, weren’t you?” the Lewis of back then said,
his lower lip starting to tremble, and then he pulled the trigger.
Cass’s rie bucked free of his one-handed grip and the young elk fell again,
and what he was saying in his head, what he was telling himself even though he
was Indian, even though he was this great born hunter, what he was telling
himself to make this okay, to be able to make it through the next minute, and
the next hour, it was that shooting her, it was just like putting one in a hay bale,
it was just like snapping a blade of grass in a eld, it was like stepping on a
grasshopper. The young elk didn’t even know what was happening, animals
aren’t aware like that, not in the same way people are.
“You believed that, too, didn’t you?” Shaney says.
“For ten years,” Lewis says back. “Until I saw her again, right over there.”
“Still dead?” Shaney asks, sitting on the second step of the stairs now, her
hand on the knee of his sweats, and that’s how she is and that’s how Lewis is
when Peta walks in the front door.
FRIDAY
When the Thunderball Express slams past at 2:12 in the morning, Lewis’s halfasleep mind turns those slamming wheels into thundering hooves, going up
and down faster and faster into some muck, until he sits up hard from … what?
His knee-jerk thought is that the train threw one of those grey rocks into the
fence, knocked another slat out, left it spinning on the cross-board like a
cartoon, but it wasn’t the train at all, he realizes. It was a … chain? He sits up
when that word connects to what’s right under the bedroom: the garage. The
sound that shook him awake was the garage door chain in its long greasy track,
the little motor grinding and pulling.
And the garage door would only be going up because someone pushed the
button. And Peta’s not on her side of the bed, is she?
Lewis sits up, his feet to the carpet now, his head trying to swim back to
functional. When he can balance enough, he steps into those same useless
sweatpants, feels his way across the bedroom to stumble down the stairs, the
same ones Peta caught him and Shaney on. Doing nothing, but still, right?
Lewis made sure Shaney left with an armload of books, a whole series, to prove
to Peta why she’d been there, but the whole time, stacking them up in Shaney’s
arms, it felt like an overcorrection, like trying to hide a body on the lawn by
covering it with eight other bodies.
And Peta bought it, too, that was the thing. There was that moment when it
all could have gone the other way, sure, but the reason it didn’t, she told him
later, it was his eyes. Lewis hadn’t even been there on the stairs, not really.
All the same, Lewis knows it might have hurt Peta less for Shaney to have
been just stepping back into her jeans. That would have been better than Lewis
telling another woman something so intimate, so personal, so private. And that
he’d been telling the elk story to another Indian, which Peta could never be no
matter how fast she ran, no matter how high she jumped, that was maybe the
nal cut. The deepest, anyway. The one she was probably still nursing.
Thursday, the little him and Peta saw each other, she was cordial but not
really herself. Not like she had something to say so much as she didn’t have
anything to say. And now she’s gone from the bed at two in the morning, when
she’s a sleeper who treasures every minute she can get until that ve o’clock
alarm.
Coming down the stairs, holding on to his sweats, Lewis overshoots the stepo at the bottom, falls ahead into the living room, tight-wiring it around the
edge of the masking tape, and, because it’s not on any human schedule, that
stupid spotlight in the ceiling ickers. From Lewis’s stumbling footfalls? Is that
what makes it come on? Or are the aftershocks from the garage door what’s
ickering it on?
Before the mystery of that spotlight, though, there’s the mystery of the wife.
Lewis pulls the door to the garage in kind of reverently, and the light built
into the garage door motor is still on because it’s only been about forty seconds
since the door came up. Sitting on the pad of concrete out at the soft edge of
that light, her knees to her chest, arms hugging them, white-blond hair cascaded
down her back, is Peta in her sleep shirt, her ankle socks, her breakfast scrunchy
around her left wrist, ready for cereal.
She’s been crying. Lewis doesn’t have to see her face to know. He can tell just
from the curve of her back.
He steps down onto the cold smooth concrete of the garage to pick his way
through to her, and that’s when he sees it.
Harley, but not. Not anymore.
That good dog from his childhood, that got its head kicked in by a horse?
That’s the closest thing to this. To what’s happened to Harley. Except that was
just one fast kick, there and back in a snap, so nobody watching the parade even
knew what had happened for a breath or two.
This—this is a dog that got ran down by a horse, and the horse had some
serious score to settle, went down and came up over and over, slamming that
dog into nothing, into a red chunky smear, teeth here, ash of bone there,
matted fur all in and among.
The vomit’s coming up and out of Lewis’s mouth before he even realizes it.
It’s hot, thin, and already on his hands, like keeping it from splashing down
onto the oor of the garage is suddenly the most important thing. Once he feels
it stringing out between his ngers, he really gags, is shambling for the outside,
losing everything under the basketball goal, his sweats around his ankles.
It’s probably not a good look, but Peta’s not looking, either. When it’s over
he yanks his stupid sweats up and pushes his forehead into the aky paint of the
basketball pole just to have something solid to hold on to.
“I don’t understand,” he says.
“He’s dead,” Peta says, kind of obviously.
Yeah, but, Lewis doesn’t say.
If the door was only open four inches, like he’s been leaving it for air
circulation, then … then: “What could have done that?”
Peta looks over from her grief hole, says, “Should we call your coworker
about it?”
Lewis deserves that, he knows. “Coworker” is what he was calling Shaney for
the few minutes after hustling her out the door with her armload of books.
“No, let’s not,” he says, cleaning his hands in the dirt. “I don’t even have her
number.”
Except, he realizes, he does, doesn’t he? In the work directory thing, the
brand-new one.
“What could have even done that to him?” he says, settling down beside Peta.
She scooches over like giving him room. Like there’s limited space on this
two-car-wide pad of dribbled-in, oil-stained concrete.
No: like she doesn’t want to be touching him.
“It wasn’t his fault,” Peta says, staring o into the nothing all around, “he
was just a dog,” which—is that an answer, really?
Without meaning to, Lewis clocks her socked feet.
No blood, no gore.
No hooves, either.
But the door, it was only up four inches. And Peta had to raise it to come sit
out here and think. The only explanation is that it was either one of the two of
them stomping Harley, or it was someone … something else.
Lewis cranks around, heart thudding in his chest, and studies the dark cave
of the garage for a tall, top-heavy form standing at up against a wall, hidden
just nearly enough, her yellow eyes drinking the light in.
It wasn’t horse hooves that did that to Harley, he’s sure. It was an elk. How
he knows is that it’safter midnight, meaning it’s technically Saturday now—it’s
exactly one week before the ten-year anniversary of the Thanksgiving Classic.
“I don’t know if we should be here anymore,” he says.
Peta doesn’t look over.
“All new houses take some getting used to,” she says, always the rational one.
“Remember that one with the attic?”
The place Lewis was so sure was haunted. The one where he nailed a board
across that attic door up in the ceiling, in case anything wanted to crawl out,
stand by the bed on his side. Or on any side. Indians are spooky had been his
explanation to Peta. It’s pretty much all he’s got now, too.
“I can’t sleep,” he says.
“You were sleeping a few minutes ago.”
“Why are you up?” Lewis asks, watching the side of Peta’s face.
“Thought I heard something,” she says, shrugging one shoulder.
“Harley?” Lewis says, because it’s the obvious thing.
“The stairs,” Peta says, which instantly sucks all the heat from Lewis’s body.
He breathes in, breathes out long and shaky.
“I didn’t tell you the whole story about that … hunting thing because I didn’t
want you to have to have it in your head,” he says.
This gets Peta looking over. A mealy-mouthed excuse like this, it deserves her
full attention.
“You don’t like to hear stu about … animals,” Lewis adds.
“It’s about you,” she says back without hesitating. “It’s who you are.”
“I didn’t tell her the end of it,” Lewis says, his voice barely more than a creak.
Peta’s still watching him. Waiting.
“You sure you want to know?” he asks.
“Who are you married to?” she says back. “Her, or me?”
Lewis nods, taking that hit, and wades into it one more time, starting with
how, when he split that young elk open, when he carved into that elk who
didn’t know when she was dead, what spilled out into the snow were her milk
bags. They were light blue, muscular and veiny, the ductwork still attached and
ready.
She was too young to be pregnant, probably couldn’t have carried full term
all the way to spring, and it was too early for a calf to be this far along anyway,
but still—that’s why she was ghting so hard, he knew, and still knows. It didn’t
matter that she was dead. She had to protect her baby.
And that baby, thatembryo or fetus, that calf, it was still rounded like a bean
in there, its head shape ducked down into its chest like it was going to look up at
him from its mother’s gore, like it was going to wobble up onto four spindly
legs, walk away, grow bigger but never actually develop, so it’d end up being a
seven-hundred-pound big-eyed, smooth-skinned fetus, always looking for its
dead mother.
When Cass wasn’t watching, which was the whole time, Lewis used the butt
of the rie to scrape a hole in the frozen dirt, and nestled that unnished, onlywriggling-a-little-bit elk calf into the ground, covered it as best he could, and
then—never mind that storm swirling in, dumping load after load of snow—
insisted on dressing this young elk mother out right, and all the way.
Nothing was going to spoil. No part of her could go to waste.
To do it right, he hacked a thick branch from the brush, split her sternum
with just the knife—she wasn’t even old enough to need the saw—then cracked
the pelvis like prying a buttery’s wingsapart, jammed the branch into her chest
to prop her open. To be sure to get every bit of her ruptured guts, the last little
bit of her lungs, he even crawled in like a kid with his rst elk, scooping and
pushing, and when he nally rolled out, dislodging the branch, Gabe was
standing there watching.
“Just the hindquarters today, Super Indian,” he said with a smile, a big
brown leg Fred-Flintstoned over his shoulder, the black hoof cupped in his
hand, blood dripping down the back of his jacket.
Lewis didn’t take Gabe’s bait. Just kept working.
The next part of his promise to the young elk was the skinning, which was a
job he really needed to hang her up for, from a stout rafter in a shop, the radio
playing over on the workbench. What he had was a trading-post knife that was
too sharp at rst, then too dull, and by the end of the job Gabe and Ricky and
Cass were all standing there watching, the snow coating their shoulders, not
even melting in their hair anymore.
And Lewis was maybe crying by then, he admits to Peta. He doesn’t say it for
pity, just because not saying that part would feel like lying.
“What did Gabe and them say about that?” Peta asks, her hand to his forearm
now, because he’s trying not to cry here, he’s trying not to be that stupid, that
needy.
“They were my friends,” Lewis says, sputtering now and trying to just keep it
in. “They didn’t—they didn’t say anything.”
Peta reaches up to his forehead, delicately removes a ake of paint from the
basketball pole, and then pulls him to her chest, her palm to his cheek, and this,
her, it’s home, and it’s not haunted, not even a little. This is where he wants to
live forever.
But he still hasn’t said it all, about that day.
What he didn’t get to before turning into a blubbering excuse for a grownup is the four of them struggling that young elk up the hill, nally just using the
junk come-along as a cable after digging the truck out, never mind that this
ledge is the exact point on the reservation where all the wind gathers to sweep
down like the end of the world.
Against all rationality, and though each step uphill takes about twenty steps
in total, the young elk makes it all the way up, and in one piece, the four of
them sweating in the freezing air. And neither Gabe nor Ricky nor Cass even
asks Lewis why this is so important. They don’t blame him, either, when Denny
Pease is waiting by the truck on his game warden four-wheeler, looking from
face to face like impressed that they thought they could get away with
something of this magnitude on his watch. It’s just as well. The snow’s too deep,
is coming down too fast. Without Denny’s radio to call in more help, the truck
doesn’t make it out, Gabe and Cass and Ricky and Lewis don’t get found until
spring, and Lewis never meets Peta, never gets Harley, never goes to work for
the post oce, never builds his Road King.
The condition Denny lays down that day, it’s that the four of them can
either throw their honorable kills back down that slope and pay the ne for
what they’ve done here, multiplied by nine, not counting any elk that ran o
shot, are out there dying now, or they throw all this meat back down that slope
and then cash out once and for all, never hunt on the reservation again. Happy
early turkey day, turkeys.
It’s a small price to pay, really. It’s not like Lewis has the nerve for shooting
big animals anymore. Not after having gone to war against the elk like that.
That craziness, that heat of the moment, the blood in his temples, smoke in the
air, it was like—he hates himself the most for this—it was probably what it was
like a century and more ago, when soldiers gathered up on ridges above
Blackfeetencampments to turn the cranks on their big guns, terraform this new
land for their occupation. Fertilize it with blood. Harvest the potatoes that
would grow there, turn them into baskets of fries, and sell those crunchy cubes
of grease back at powwows.
Even after taking Denny’s option two—I will hunt no more forever—all
Lewis could think about, standing there, was that young elk he’d spent so much
time on. She was freezing solid on the ground between them all, skinless,
surrounded by sawed-o legs.
“Can we at least keep her?” he asked Denny, Gabe already rushing to the
ledge to sling his elk haunch out into open space, the storm swallowing it
whole.
Like a ritual, Cass stepped forward, hurled his leg down the slope, and then
Ricky did it, his going the highest before disappearing, all ve of them tracking
its descent until they couldn’t.
Denny looked over to Lewis about his question, then down to the young
elk, all her muscles showing, a hole blown in her back, her head mostly gone,
and Lewis, in the driveway well after midnight, shudders against Peta. Not
because Denny shrugged a what-the-hell about the young elk, but because
Harley’s dead, isn’t he? And not just dead, but killed, in a way that had to be
terrifying. It should have been Lewis under those ashing elk hooves, Lewis
knows, it should have been him paying for that young elk. Not Harley.
“I don’t understand what’s happening,” he says into Peta’s chest, his hand
gripping hard on her leg. All her running muscles are still there, are there
forever, probably.
“Something must have got in,” she says back, about Harley.
She’s right, of course, but the real question isn’t what got in, it’s when did it
get in.
Lewis’s breath hitches and he stands all at once, faking resolve, is already at
the side of the house, digging for a shovel.
Peta stands at the edge of the concrete watching, her elbows in her hands,
parentheses of concern around her eyes.
“I’m sorry,” she says. About all of it—the elk, Harley. Maybe even Shaney.
When Lewis comes in thirty minutes later, Harley poured into the hole he
dug that was bigger than it needed to be, a blanket and a sleeping bag or two
packed in all around him to keep him warm, he steps out of those useless
sweatpants, balls them into the kitchen trash, and what he sees nestled in there is
a ball of crumbling masking tape.
Peta peeled the elk up from the living room oor. Good, he tells himself,
standing there naked, chest heaving, good.
Just, it doesn’t feel good.
SATURDAY
To keep his hands busy, maybe occupy his mind if he’s lucky, Lewis puts the
Road King up on the stand, is going to take it down to the frame again, clean
and detail every bolt thread, check and double-check every connection, blow
every line out twice, make it brand-new, cherrier than cherry.
He’s just gone what he thinks might be a full ve minutes without images of
Harley cycling through his head when two of Great Falls’ best show up, doing
that thing where they park their patrol car across the bottom of the driveway.
Lewis keeps on tracing the throttle cable he’s tracing, like that’s the only thing
he’s interested in today. The cops walk up spaced out wider than a single
shotgun blast. The reason for their spacing, Lewis knows, is that he’s sitting in
the dark of the garage, shirt o, hair over his face, and he didn’t walk out to
meet them, is making them come to him.
“That really your name?” the rst ocer asks.
“Like, on purpose?” the second adds.
“What’s this about?” Lewis says, hands in clear view up in the frame of the
Road King. Though of course, should they pop him in the back with their .40-
calibers just because, then their report could be all about how it looked like he
had a gun tucked up under the tank.
“This is about your killer dog,” the second ocer says.
“What’d he do?” Lewis asks.
“According to emergency room personnel,” the rst ocer states, looking at
his notebook like reading it but of course he’s not, “a dog at this address bit a
man on the face.”
“Silas,” Lewis says with a shrug. “That’s between me and him, isn’t it?”
“Not when the hospital gets involved,” the second ocer says. “We have to
see if the animal qualies as a menace, a threat to public safety.”
“Aren’t you people cops, not dog cops?” Lewis says, standing, each of the
cops taking a tactical step back, their right hands suddenly loose by their sides.
“We’re the police asking to see your dog,” the rst ocer says, that thing rising
in his voice that isn’t so much saying this call can go bad, but that he’s kind of
hoping it will.
“You really want to see him?” Lewis asks.
Where he leads them is the tamped-down grave on the back side of the fence,
close to the tracks. He explains to them that he buried Harley there because he
liked to bark at the train. They ask what happened to him. Instead of telling
them that an elk from back home followed him all the way down here, is
apparently on this big revenge arc, and instead of telling them option two,
which is that there was something in this house before he even got here, and it’s
using his own memories and guilt against him, Lewis just shrugs.
What he also doesn’t tell them is that there’s always the chance that he’s just
at-out losing it, here. That all the bad medicine from that hunt’s built up all
these years, has turned into something that’s messing with his head from the
inside. Or maybe that repetitive scope-eye he got that day in the snow was worse
than he thought, it kicked something loose in his brain, something that’s just
now blooming.
“Do you not want to tell us because you put the dog down yourself, and
don’t want us checking serial numbers on any unregistered weapons?” the rst
ocer asks.
“You don’t have to register hunting ries,” Lewis says. “Do you?”
“You shot a deer rie this close to other houses?” the second ocer says, real
concern in his eyes.
“Elk rie,” Lewis corrects. “And no, I didn’t shoot it this close to other
houses. He hung himself from the fence, trying to get over.”
“‘He,’” the second ocer prompts.
“Harley,” Lewis lls in.
“Like your bike,” the second ocer says.
Lewis doesn’t dignify this.
“The one you’re taking apart as well,” the second ocer says.
“What are you saying?” Lewis asks.
“What are you doing?” the rst ocer says right back.
Lewis thrusts both his hands up through his hair and like that both cops have
drawn, are in that shooting crouch they like.
Going slow, nger by nger, Lewis lowers his hands back to his sides.
Dealing with cops is like being around a skittish horse: No sudden
movements, nothing shiny or loud. Zero jokes.
Still, Lewis leans forward, shakes what hair he has to show there’re no
weapons there.
“You’ll dig him up?” the second ocer asks, holstering his pistol.
“I can,” Lewis says, toeing at the loose dirt of the obvious mound.
“You’re supposed to have a permit to bury on private property,” the rst
ocer says. “Otherwise everybody buries their pets down at the park, or in their
neighbor’s lawn, because they don’t want to mess their own grass up.”
Lewis looks up to the tracks on their long spine of gravel-skinned earth, says,
“Think BNSF cares?”
“We’ll make the necessary inquiries,” the rst ocer says, his pistol holstered
now as well.
“Fine,” Lewis says.
“We might need to see the animal, too,” the second ocer says. “To
conrm.”
“That he’s dead?” Lewis asks.
“That you’re not hiding him,” the second ocer says.
“Unless you want to grant us permission to inspect your house,” the rst
ocer says.
Lewis hiccups half a laugh out, shakes his head no-thank-you to that home
inspection. Just on principle.
“He was a barker,” he says, about Harley. “You’d have heard him when your
car pulled up.”
“We’ll be back soon,” the rst ocer assures Lewis. “Either with the proper
documents to perform a comprehensive search, or with the railroad’s reply.”
“Or to dig my dead dog up,” Lewis adds, stupid Indian that he is.
“That, too,” the second ocer says, and then the three of them are walking
back to where this started.
Lewis sits back down on the purple milk crate beside the Road King.
“Shouldn’t you be at work?” the second ocer says in farewell, his chrome
shades already back on.
Lewis shrugs, is leaned down into the frame of the Road King again, rolling
a vacuum tube for pliancy.
“Anything you want to tell us, sir?” the rst asks.
“I miss my dog, yeah,” Lewis says, and like those were the magic words, the
patrol car iseasing away. They’re coming back, though. Because copsare exactly
what Lewis needs in his life. His thinking is already twitchy enough without
having to act all law-abiding for them.
He goes inside for a sandwich, eats it standing over the sink so as not to
crumb the place up, and when he comes back to the Road King, two of the
books he loaned Shaney are on the purple crate, like she showed up in the garage
while he was leaning against the kitchen counter shaking Fritos into his mouth
from the bag. He picks the two paperbacks up, studies the spines. The rst two
in the series. He grins a little, maybe the rst time he’s smiled in two or three
days. He wishes he could go back, read them all over again for the rst time. He
wishes he had the concentration for reading at all, right now.
Instead, what he can’t stop thinking, it’s why now? Why did this elk, if it is an
elk, why did she wait so long to come for him? Was it so he could have time to
cobble a life together, get people and things he cares about, so she could take
them away the same way he took her calf from her? But why start with him, not
with Gabe and Cass? Not that he wishes any kind of ill on them, but if she’s
from the reservation, well: That’s where they are, right? Why trek all the way
down here rst? And Ricky doesn’t factor in, since he died just a few months
after Lewis left, and it wasn’t anything out of the ordinary, just another Indian
beaten to death outside a bar.
The only part that makes sense, Lewis supposes, it’s starting with the dog. It’s
what serial killers and monsters always do, since dogs bark the alarm, dogs know
there’s some shape standing over there in the shadow.
But how, right? How did she do it?
Does she, like, inhabit random people to do her bidding or something?
Could she have snagged some kid bopping down the road after lights-out,
gotten him or her to weasel through that four-inch space under the garage door
and go to town on Harley with a mallet?
But none of Lewis’s mallets have heads that big. And what happened to
Harley looked sort of like elk hooves.
Lewis stands, studies the garage with this possibility in mind.
What else could have done this to Harley, right?
“Post driver,” he says, drifting over to it in the corner. It’s the kind you need
two handsand your whole body for. The kind that should be over in the corner
with the T-posts, since that’s what it goes with.
Lewis doesn’t want to lift it, see the business end, but he has to.
It’s clean, pristine, even has delicate akes of rust-backed paint just hanging
on, akes that no way could have stayed there while crushing a dog to death
with ten or twenty heavy blows.
A quart paint can, maybe? Those are hand-sized, could do the job. Lewis
inspects all of them as well, even the ones that are light, obviously dried up.
Nothing.
“You’re being stupid,” he tells himself, and sits down hard on the concrete
step leading up to the kitchen door, pulls the mallet from its hook on the side of
the rolling tool chest, bounces its butt between his feet.
The mallet is clean, too. For a mallet.
Of course an elk can’t “inhabit” a person. That person would fall over onto
all fours and probably instantly panic. Unless she’s like that shadow he saw in
the living room. Woman body, elk head, no horns.
That’s all he’s really got, though: a shadow he probably saw wrong, and
something he thought he saw through the spinning blades of a fan.
Those two cops would love him to come in with that for evidence, or as
explanation.
And thinking about it isn’t making it go away. Lewis chuckles at himself,
shakes his head, and drops the mallet handle-rst into the closest receptacle,
which is one of the cheapo rubber boots Peta always keeps by the door of all the
houses they’ve rented since moving out of her aunt’s basement. The boots are
big enough that either Lewis or her can pull them on, wade out into the snow
for the mail, then slip them o, not track slush in.
Lewis is so used to these boots by now that he doesn’t even see them, not
until they’re in motion. From the mallet he dropped into the right one.
He pushes away just on instinct—boots don’t move on their own—then
comes back closer to be sure he’s seeing what he’s seeing.
The motion is ants. The boots are coated in small black ants, summer ants,
even though Thanksgiving’s just next week. Halloween ants, maybe? Is that a
thing? If not, it should be, once he realizes what the ants are after: Harley.
What’s left of him, smushed into the tread of the rubber soles, smeared on the
toes because it wasn’t all stomping, evidently. There was some kicking, too.
Lewis shakes his head no, please no, and backs away, out into the light, then
feels his way around to Harley’s grave. Lewis is breathing deep but he’s not
going to cry. He’s a stoic Indian, after all. When he was a kid, he thought that
was the fancy word for “stone-faced,” which he gured was some connection to
Rushmore, since he knew it wasn’t supposed to look like that.
That was back when he was stupid, though. Before now, when he’s even
stupider.
Except—what he’s thinking now. No.
Last night out here in the dark, when he kept asking Peta about Harley,
about how that could have happened. Could she have just been seeing a dog
that nally died from its injury? Had Lewis seen something completely
dierent? Did his questions even make sense to her?
He thinks back through what he can dredge up of her answers, to see if they
track with a Harley that wasn’t stomped to mush.
On his knees back by the fence, he claws the earth open with his desperate
ngers, breathing fast. He pulls up the blanket with the ducks on it and the
sleeping bag that tapers at the foot end, and one Star Wars sleeping bag deeper
and it’s going to be Harley.
But then Lewis doesn’t pull that eld of stars away.
Does he even really want to know? Will seeing Harley smashed to pulp
prove anything about who was wearing those boots? Is that even for sure dead
dog in the tread of those boots? What if Peta was hauling the trash out from the
kitchen and it burst, and she had to wade through it? Halloween ants would go
for that just the same, wouldn’t they? If there is such a thing as Halloween ants?
What he’s really afraid of, though, he knows, it’s that Harley will just be dead
from being strangled by his collar, from hanging on the fence.
And now the ground is trembling with Lewis’s chest. The train’s coming.
The train’s always coming.
Lewis closes his eyes against the screaming wheels and the sparks, but then a
rock chip catches him on the arm and he falls away slapping at it, and that’s
when he nally looks at the train rushing past. Not at the dierent-colored cars,
not at the grati smearing past at sixty miles per hour, but at the space between
the cars, that space that’s full full full full, then, for a ash, for a slice of an
instant, empty.
Only, it’s not.
Standing out there in the yellow grass is a woman with an elk head, and—
no, no.
Lewis stumbles forward, the train cars whipping just past his face now.
Is she wearing a thick brown jacket with reective stripes? Like the kind the
ground crew of an airport wears?
“It can’t be,” Lewis says, and the moment the train’s gone he’s scrambling up
onto the hot tracks, but of course the grass over there is just grass again, like
nobody was even there.
SUNDAY
For once, Lewis wishes he were at work. Because the only other option is faking
sleep until Peta’s gone to her shift. For maybe thirty seconds he felt her standing
in the doorway with her morning coee, watching the mound of covers he was
trying to make rise and fall like completely normal, non-mechanical breathing,
but at least that kept her from asking him why he was acting like such a weirdo
last night, cooking alone out on the grill like some backyard warrior, then
staying in the garage with the Road King until late.
Are you pissed about something? she might have asked, if she’d seen an eyelid
icker.
The answer he had ready was No, and Harley, but then she bought his
sleeping ruse, he guesses.
Well. If she’s Peta she bought it.
If she’s something else, well.
The dots he’s trying and trying not to let connect in his head are that Peta
showed up on the reservation, didn’t she? And it was the exact summer after the
Thanksgiving Classic, when he was all busy ipping the whole place o with
both hands, denying it his sacred presence from here on out. Maybe that’s the
answer for why this is starting with him, not Gabe or Cass: because he was the
rst to leave.
As for the case against Peta, or for her not being Peta, it doesn’t help that she’s
a vegetarian, either, Lewis has to admit. Which is what you call a person who
doesn’t eat meat. What you call an animal that doesn’t eat meat, that’s
“herbivore.”
Elk are herbivores. Grass-eaters. Vegetarians.
And: maybe she wasn’t lying when she said it was her past making her not
want to have kids? Only, the past she meant was the one where she already lost a
calf?
Moments after the front door shuts and locks, Lewis covers his face with his
pillow, screams into it.
If it’s her or if it’s not her, either way, one fact is that somebody in those boots
stomped Harley dead. And he denitely for sure saw a woman with an elk head
through the boxcars ashing past—maybe even ashing past at the same icker
rate as the ceiling fan?
It’s too much to hold in his head all at once.
He loves Peta, and also he’s terried of her.
Worse, there’s no proof either way. No way to tell.
Lewis smushes the pillow up his face, pushes it behind him, and, with hisears
cleared now, hears a telltale creak on the stairs. As if, say, someone didn’t
actually just leave. As if someone just shut the door and locked it from the
inside.
Slowly, deliberately, the most distinct footfalls he’s ever heard are coming up
the stairs, but each light thunk is preceded by a draggy whisk. Because an elk will
feel forward with its hooves, right? Find the leading edge of the next step before
actually taking it?
Lewis rolls over fast, his bare back to the door, and stares at the curtainless
window, trying to memorize each waver and imperfection in the glass so he can
clock the reection when it comes. And his right ear, the one that’s up, dials
down as sensitive as he can get it. The kind of sensitive that can hear a large set of
nostrils breathing his scent in, should that happen.
A tear spills from his left eye, soaks into the pillow.
Is she there now? And if she is, then which her is it? Peta-Peta, or Peta with
an elk head?
When one of the ripples in the window glass nally smears with color, with
motion, Lewis breathes in deep, says, “Hey, forget something?”
No answer.
When he breathes his next breath in, it’s thready, unsteady, isn’t a breath he
can trust not to explode into a scream.
“Or was it—?” he says, rolling over fake-groggily like he has an end to that
sentence.
The doorway’s empty.
Lewis closes his eyes, opens them, doesn’t let himself rush to the window to
see who, or what, might be walking away.
It’s too early for this shit.
He brushes his teeth and peesat the same time, spits into the toiletand sort of
on his hand, and makes his way downstairs, taking the steps slow, trying to
memorize each creak. It’s hopeless, though. Each stairstep makes one sound in
the middle, a completely dierent sound eight inches over. Of course.
At the kitchen table he stands before the elk bundle—the hairy burrito—for
maybe thirty seconds, nally pushes a nger into it. It’s mushy and rough at the
same time, smells like some soft cheese that was on the table at a party once, that
he knew better than to eat.
“Cheese,” though. Now he’s thinking cheese.
It’ll wreck his digestion, but, guring that’s the least of his concerns right
now, he makes a grilled cheese for breakfast, just staring down into the yeastcraters in the toasting bread while it cooks in the pan.
Because he’s such a good and considerate husband, he eats it over the sink.
Either that or he’s kind of scared of the living room. His big irrational fear now
is that that spotlight in the ceiling’s not broken, it’s just waiting for him to be
the right kind ofalone, so it can shine down like a UFO beam, a woman with an
elk head materializing in it. Or it can shine down on Peta when she’s standing
right there, that light showing her true form.
Which is just Peta, Lewis insists to himself, raising the last triangle of the
grilled cheese high to slam it down through the rubber aps of the disposal, as if
a grilled cheese can be the deciding gavel. It sort of works, but the crust breaks
away on the backswing, lets that last good bite go ying. Trying to imagine
either him or Peta nding a moldering hunk of bread and, worse, cheese behind
some jar or can next week, he ips the light on, hunts the lost bite down.
Instead of nding it, he sees a paperback on top of the refrigerator. Not
either of the two Shaney left in the garage, which he already put up, but the
third in the series. Already. Beside it is Peta’s thermos, the one she takes to work,
that she can never nd, that she evidently didn’t nd this morning, either. The
thing with her is she’s tall, so when she comes home she sets stu in the rst
place she sees, which is generally somewhere high. The top of the refrigerator,
this time. The book must have been out front somewhere, the porch, maybe.
“You can bring them back all at once …” Lewis says to the idea of Shaney,
taking the book down from its perch, and, as if by design, the guilty last bite of
grilled cheese is right there behind it. Lewis pinches it up like it’s gross, like he
wasn’t just eating it ten seconds ago, and delivers it to the sink, the headline
scrolling across the back of his forehead: INDIAN MAN FIRST IN HISTORY TO PICK
UP AFTER HIMSELF.
He smirks about that, kind of stupidly proud, and takes the stairs two at a
time up to the linen closet that’s his new bookshelves.
Before ling the book back in the stack, he fans the top corner to make sure
Shaney isn’t a page-folder. She isn’t—thisalone pretty much means she’sa good
person—but he does catch something. He ips through again, slower, and
doesn’t see whatever it is again until … the inside of the back cover.
“Seriously?” he says.
She writes in books, apparently. In borrowed books. In pencil, and light like
she maybe meant to erase it, but still, right?
Screw it, Lewis tells himself. Who cares? They’re mass market, not
collectors’, and the story’s still the same, and it’s not like she’s putting happy
faces or question marks in the actual margins. But now Lewis has to ip
through to be sure there’s none of that going on, and, even while doing it, he’s
wondering if he’s doing it to have something to rib her about at work. Which
sounds a lot like irting.
But it’s not that, he insists. This is book-policing. And it’s his book anyway.
He can look through it all he wants.
Flipping through, he nds himself sitting down against the wall, back in the
world of this story again. It’s the series about that stone the elves didn’t want,
but didn’t want found, either, because it can destroy the whole world. So they
hide it in a magic fountain. Which is also, Lewis forgets just how, twinned with
the wishing well in the mall that one doofus works in … Andy? Yeah, Andy. Of
course “Andy.” Andy the This, Andy the That. And then all the magical
creatures are trolling the mall for the stone their magical radar is telling them is
here somewhere. It’s kind of hilarious, and has more sex scenes than really make
sense either for such an actiony story or for a story in a place as public as a mall,
but that’s magical creatures for you.
“Did you like it, at least?” Lewis mumbles, ipping to Shaney’s notes.
She’s not jotting stu down about the novel, though. She’s still thinking
through the masking tape on Lewis’s living room oor.
What makes this elk so special? is the rst note.
Under it she’s drawn three lines, like giving herself room to gure this out.
But they’re blank.
Peta could have answered it, though. Because Lewis told her: this young elk
had been pregnant, and farther along than she should have been for November.
He thought that was what gave her ght, but what if—what if every great once
in a while an elk is special, right? What if there are wheels within wheels up
there on the mountain, where ceremony used to take place? Was that unborn
elk supposed to, Lewis doesn’t know, grow some monstrous rack, be a trophy
for some twelve-year-old’s rst kill? Was it supposed to be the big elk an old man
chooses not to shoot on his last hunt? Was it supposed to clamber up onto a
certain stretch of blacktop, wait for headlights to crunch into it? Was it supposed
to nd new and safer grass for the herd? Was it not even about the calf, but the
mother?
What process had Lewis broken by popping this elk back in illegal country?
“You’re thinking crazy,” he tells himself, just to hear it out loud. He’s right,
though. These are the kind of wrong thoughts people have who are spending
too much time alone. They start unpacking vast cosmic bullshit from gum
wrappers, and then they chew it up, blow a bubble, ride that bubble up into
some even stupider place.
Elk are just elk, simple as that. If animals came back to haunt the people who
shot them, then the old-time Blackfeet would have had ghost bualo so thick in
camp they couldn’t even walk around, probably.
But they killed them fair and square, Lewis hears, and in Shaney’s voice, he
thinks. Probably because he’s reading her writing.
Shaney’s next question, still in her voice, is, Why now?
Lewis is the only one who maybe knows this answer.
It has to do with her meat, doesn’t it? All that meat he gave away door-todoor on Death Row, which is where the closest-to-death of the elders get to live.
It’s not out of reach to think that one of those elders he gave the meat to is
still alive. Some of them old cats can sit in the same chair for ten, twenty years.
Or—
That’s it, Lewis knows all at once, sitting up from the wall, his face muscles
tense from this certainty.
One of those elders was still alive … until last week, or last month.
This has to be it.
One of those elders nally kicked last week, and way in the back of her
freezer, frozen to the side of it after all these years, there was one last packet of
that meat left. Because it was locked in ice, her old ngers could never pry it
free, and the reason none of her kids or grandkids ever mixed it into
Hamburger Helper or cooked it up with taco seasoning, it was that raccoon
stamp.
If you don’t know the story of the meat, if that elder couldn’t remember the
kind young man assuring her it was elk, then what you think, with a black
footprint like that on the white paper, it’s that somebody’s ground up some
raccoon from somewhere—the road south, probably—and left it in this freezer
like a joke, like a dare.
No, nobody ate it. Nobody would.
But now, with that elder dead, another family’s getting that house, right?
Which means new furniture, new appliances. Out with the old freezer, in with
the new one.
The meat nally thaws, gets tossed. For the birds, for the dogs. And that last
packet of meat, it was Lewis’s one chance, wasn’t it? He’d promised the young
elk that none of her would go to waste. But now some had.
That’s why now, Shaney. Shit.
The moment that packet of raccoon-printed meat hit the ground, started to
thaw, the ground hatched open back in the elders’ hunting section. What
clambered out, just like a monster movie, was the ghost elk, the one he’d had to
shoot three times.
At rst she’s wobbly on her legs, but with each step south, her hooves are
more sure.
Peta didn’t stomp Harley, she did, this ghost elk. After … what let her in,
though?
“That I was still thinking of her?” Lewis says in the hallway.
His memory of that young elk, his guilt over her, that was the tether she
pulled herself back with, wasn’t it? That’s why she’s starting with him, not
Gabe, not Cass: because they don’t remember her. She’s just one of a thousand
dead elk to them.
It’s all making sense now. Without Peta here to talk him down, this is all
making perfect sense, actually.
Shaney’s last note is only half formed, still in its egg of parentheses: (ivory?)
Shit. Of course. Lewis stands, paces back and forth, slapping the paperback
against his thigh, pushing his other hand through his hair.
Shaney knows elk as well as he does, doesn’t she?
The thing with elk is that their canines, they used to be tusks, thousands of
years ago. They’re shorter these days, but are still ivory. That’s why they look
good polished up and sewn to a traditional dress. If Lewis and Gabe and Ricky
and Cass had been thinking that day in the snow, their pockets would have been
clinking with elk ivory, to trade back in town.
What Shaney is saying with that (ivory?) is that there’s a way to tell who the
ghost elk is.
Check the teeth.
Lewis holds his left hand out. It’s shaking. He drops the paperback, grabs his
left wrist with his right hand to steady it. When that doesn’t work he retreats to
the garage again. By the time Peta gets home hours later, he’s got the Road King
down to smaller and smaller pieces, arrayed all around him like an exploded
diagram from a repair manual.
She stands out there under the goal and studies him—he can feel her. She’s
studying him and she’s trying to make sense of all these parts, all this grease and
oil. All this eort. A husband who doesn’t go to work anymore, and refuses to
talk about it.
Finally she sets her duel down, tosses her ear protection on top—she’s
superstitious about them, won’t leave them at work—and uses her foot to ip
the basketball up to her hands.
She spins it backward, dribbles it twice.
“Real leather,” she says, impressed. “Where’s it from?”
Lewis looks from it to the street, realizes he has no idea. Shaney was just
shooting with it. He never stopped to ask if she’d brought it.
Like he can say that now.
He shrugs.
“Make it take it?” Peta says, chest-passing the ball at him, which is practically
a skills challenge, what with how he has the garage booby-trapped. But that’s
Peta.
Lewis catches the ball the same as he had to when Shaney zinged it at him—
what is it with the women in his life? After rocking back and almost falling o
the purple crate, he chocks the ball under hisarm to clean his hands on his pants
legs and eases out under the oodlight with her, dribbling once like testing is
this ball up to his exacting standards.
“Eleven?” she says, coming around to place herself between him and the rim,
palms up, eyes ready even though she has to have been awake going on twenty
hours.
No way is she anything but herself.
Lewis smiles his best Gabe-smile and looks up to that orange rim like asking
Peta if she’s sure about this, asking if she really thinks she’s ready for what he’s
about to bring.
She is, and then some.
They trade buckets until they’re both slick with sweat, and Lewis never stops
to think that she’s going easy on him, that she’s letting him feel like he has a
chance.
What he’s doing specically, for the rst time in days it feels like, is not
thinking, just stopping on dime after dime, faking to make airspace, running
through the tall grass and junky lumber for the ball again and again. It’s one
hundred percent exactly what he needs, and would have never known to ask
for.
By the end he’s laughing, she’s laughing, and then they’re in each other’s
slick arms, and he’s guiding her back onto the mound of blankets and sleeping
bags whose sweat lodge dreams are over, and the door is lowering over them as
they add their clothes to the pile, and the world is kind of perfect.
MONDAY
It’s lunch by the time Lewis gets the drive belt back onto the Road King. The
bike is still a skeleton, but now it’sa skeleton with an engine that cranksand can
blur the spokes of its rear wheel. No forks or bars, no seat or pegs, and the
throttle is just a cable, but this is something, he tells himself. It’s a sign that he’s
climbing back to his life. Once the Road King’s back together enough, then he
can nally ride in to work, provided he still has a job. There’s a lot of steps to
getting red from a federal job, though.
Lewis might can stop them by sitting in the big oce and taking his
medicine, promising to be a model employee from here on out, oering to take
all the shit details, covering for whoever needs it, coming in on holidays, on
snow days, whatever it takes.
The best excuse he’ll have for his prolonged absence will be Harley, but that’s
also the most embarrassing excuse: a dog. Is he really that fragile? Is he going to
lodge a complaint about “Chief” next? Will his new name around the post
oce be “Kid Gloves”?
It’s not supposed to be easy, though, he tells himself. It’s not supposed to be
easy or comfortable or fun or any of that. And if it ends up with him keeping his
job, maybe even getting his own route someday, well, then it’ll have been worth
it. Sorry, Harley. You deserved better. But right now it’s about proving to Peta
that he’s not stalling out in the middle of his life. Right now it’s about showing
her that she’s not going to have to carry him from here on out. She would,
Lewis knows, she’d do it for as long as she could, but the strain would show.
She’s pretty much superhuman, and would never complain, but they’re
supposed to be a team, too. He delivers the mail, she brings the planes in, and
they meet at the end of the day over tofu and beans, compare notes, and, like
last night, work out their kinks on the court. And also on the oor of the garage.
The more Lewis thinks about it, tightening this bolt, wiping that smudge
o, no way can it be Peta, right? If she were really this “Elk Head Woman” he’s
making up, which isn’t even a Blackfeet thing so far as he knows, then why
would she have saved him from bashing his head in on the hearth when he fell
o the ladder? Answer: she wouldn’t have. That would have been just what she
wanted. And it would have been the perfectaccident, giving her an excuse to go
up to the reservation for the funeral, look across the grave to Gabe and Cass
right there, like they know it’s their turn.
No, Peta’s Peta, Lewis decides.
But the only reason he thought she wasn’t?
Shaney.
He stands to nd a cable clip he knows is in the garage somewhere, probably
within arm’s reach, and manages to kick a housing into the torque wrench he
has leaned against the front tire, and it all clatters down like misshapen
dominoes and Lewis just stands there, unable to take his frustration out on any
of this because that’ll make even more of a mess.
Shaney, though.
What if that elder whose freezer got cleaned out didn’t die a week or two
ago, but a month or two ago? Shaney could have heard it hit the ground,
clawed up from the pile of weathered bones at the bottom of that steep slope,
and walked on wobbly legs down across half of Montana, nally got steady
enough that she was able to stride right through the front door of the post oce,
ll out a federal application.
And it makes sense that when that elk took two-legged form, human form,
that person might have skin to match Lewis’s own. He doesn’t know why he
didn’t see this before.
The clincher comes when he’s back in the house, cleaning a grimy washer in
the sink, trying to use the dish brush as little as possible, since Peta doesn’t like
grease showing up in the kitchen. Which Lewis completely understands. So he’s
just brushing the washer lightly, with the very tip of the blue bristles, not the
white ones.
Walking back to the garage turning the washer back and forth to see if it’s
possible anymore to tell which side had been facing out, his heel on the oor
shakes the house in the way it needs for that spotlight in the living room to jiggle
on in his peripheral vision.
Lewis freezes, half afraid to look directly at it, since he’s trying hard for this
episode of his life to be over.
For it to really be over, though, he has to prove he’s not scared anymore,
doesn’t he? He makes himself look.
On cue, like it’s shy, the light sucks back up into the bulb.
Lewis stamps his heel on the kitchen oor again. Nothing.
“Such bullshit,” he says, shaking his head at the stupidity of all this, haunted
houses and ghost elk and Crow women, and then, not wanting to in the least
but making himself, because he doesn’t need to be handled with kid gloves, he
looks up, through the spinning blades of the fan instead of at them. The angle
from the kitchen is bad, so he feels safe, but still, there’s the chance he’s going to
see a woman-shape up in the far corner, trying to skitter out of view.
Nothing.
He lets himself breathe out, rubs the coolness of the washer against his chin,
and tracks down from the fan to … where he saw her rst. The couch, the carpet
there.
“Oh shit,” he says, letting the washer fall and not bothering to go after it.
Why didn’t he see this the other day? It’s so obvious.
When—when Peta was helping him re-create the conditions of what he
thought he’d seen, he’d climbed the ladder, he’d looked down through the fan
bladesat the carpet, and … he’d also looked down at Peta, on the couch, looking
back up at him, not judging, not having to suppress her smile, just playing
along with her losing-it, spooky-Indian husband.
That’s not the important part, though. The important part is that, through
the revealing blades of the fan, through that ickering that strips away fake faces
or whatever, she’d been herself.
“I’m sorry,” Lewis says to her. For avoiding her the other night. For even
allowing the possibility that it could have been her.
It was never her. That’s just what he was supposed to think—that’s what Elk
Head Woman wants, for him to tear down his own life. That way she doesn’t
even have to do anything, can just sit back and watch.
She’s devious like that.
And … using the same logic he used to indict Peta—that she’d shown up the
summer right after the Thanksgiving Classic—Lewis realizes it can’t be any
accident that the day Shaney showed up at his house, delivered by him, Harley
was already most of the way dead.
If he hadn’t been, then he would have gone for her throat, wouldn’t he
have? He would have ripped her mask o, shown her for what she was.
Shit.
It’s like rebuilding a carburetor. You seat that last jet and then realize this
thing can breathe on its own now.
Like to conrm that, when Lewis steps outside to just not be in the house for
a minute or two, the fourth book in the series is there, balanced on top ofa stray
beer can so anybody leaving or coming home has to trip on it, nd it.
Lewis stares down at the book for maybe twenty seconds before nudging it
over with his toe, like there might be something ready to spring up from the
can. The book falls open-faced on the rough concrete, the can doing its tinny
roll for a foot or so, until it nds a pebble to stop against.
Lewis kneels, saves the book from the scratchy concrete, and ips to the
inside back cover rst thing, for the next note.
It’s blank, doesn’t even have erased pencil marks.
Lewis studies the street and across the street, and both ways as far as he can
see.
Shaney must be close, right?
Nothing moves, though. No big ears ick back in the trees, no large black
eyes blink, no hooves shift weight.
Lewis takes the book back inside, sits at the kitchen table with it, and
interrogates the cover, the spine, ips through the pages.
“Why the books?” is where he nally lands. That’s the part that doesn’t track,
that’s the thing niggling at his mind, trying to poke holes in his theory, his
suspicions. If—if Shaney is this young elk reborn or not yet dead or come back
for unnished business, then why is she interested in a fantasy series about a
jewelry store worker trying to save the world from itself?
Lewis scans the back cover to be sure he remembers this one right. Yep. It’s
the installment where the usher at the movie theater, the one who’s more than
she seems, gures out that the food court is actually the front gate of the fairy
prison. It’s maybe the best book in the series, really. It ends with Andy on a
woolly mammoth, rampaging through the makeup and perfume department of
one of the pricey department stores, and then it has that epilogue—rare for an
installment in a series—where the dwarves discover carbonated drinks, and you
can tell from the glimmer in their eyes that this is going to be trouble.
None of which applies in any remote way to the Thanksgiving Classic, to
hunting in general, to the post oce, to Gabe and Cass, to Peta. At least not in
any way Lewis can track.
He shuts the book, ditches it on the stairs so he can grab it next trip up.
So it’s Shaney, then. If it’s not Peta, and it’s not, then Shaney’s the main and
only one left. And maybe she didn’t crawl up from that killing eld up on the
reservation, maybe she had a whole real life before … before she stopped being
herself, opened her eyes, and looked around with a dierent set of instincts.
Maybe she was up in Browning for Indian Days, or maybe she clipped an elk on
the interstate down here, or maybe she just signed on to the wrong job, took a
cigarette break on the wrong stoop by the loading dock, breathed in more than
smoke.
The how doesn’t really matter. What does is that she’s coming for him. And
that she’s been trying to set Peta up, meaning Peta’s a target as well.
Lewis shakes his head no about that.
Thisends here. Or, itends where he wants it to end, not where Shaney wants
it to.
To be sure, though, beyond a shadow, he has to somehow get Shaney into his
living room one more time. He has to get her in his living room while he’s up
on the ladder, so he can look down at her through the spinning blades of the
fan.
And it’s probably best to do this when Peta’s not around. Meaning
tomorrow, when she’s at work.
It’s leaving himself vulnerable, Lewis knows—it won’t look good if Peta
walks in on them alone in the house again—but if Peta’s piddling in the kitchen
while Lewis relays some made-up work news or whatever, then Shaney’s
defenses will be up, and her real face might not show.
No, her real head.
But what will get her over here tomorrow, right?
The one thing Lewis maybe has going is that he’s half sure that on Tuesdays,
Shaney doesn’t go in until noon. And that he, of course, won’t be going in
either. For the moment, there’s more important things.
He paces and paces the house, looking in every corner for a reason to get
Shaney over here. Something work? Indian? Basketball? Should he act like he’s
ready to go the next step with her? Does he need some help keeping his sweats
up? Would she even be interested, or has he been reading her completely
wrong?
No, he nally gures out—not that he’s been reading her wrong or right—
but, none of those options. There’s a better way to get her into his living room.
Silas.
He was the gift Shaney didn’t know she was giving him.
That’s the way it always is in fantasy novels, isn’t it? The evil wizard or
dastardly druid builds his own doom into his plan, like he knows he really
shouldn’t be doing this, or like there’s some magical realm rule where he has to
leave a single scale o the dragon’s belly, to give the puny crew a one-in-athousand chance.
Harley biting Silas is that missing scale, that chink in the armor, that one
chance he has in a thousand. Lewis thinks it through once, twice, and nods the
third time through, when there aren’t any red ags.
This can work.
He digs around for the work directory, can’t put hands on it, so just calls the
post oce, talks Margie out of Shaney’s number because he’s coming back to
work but his bike’s all taken apart, and she lives out by him, he can catch a ride
with her.
Ten digits later, Shaney’s phone is ringing.
“Blackfeet?” she creaks after his Hello? Lewis listens for rustling in the
background to see if she’s alone.
“Hey,” Lewis says. “Silas is back in the mail room, isn’t he?”
“Frankenface?” she says.
Lewis winces, is responsible for that.
“We were kind of short handed,” Shaney goes on, coughing like a smoker.
“Sorry about that,” he says.
“What already?” Shaney says. “It’s my day o, man.”
“Thought you were o Wednesday,” Lewis says like the question it is.
“Missing two people, schedule’s fried,” she says back.
“But you go in tomorrow, right?” Lewis asks. “Silas, his build, his bike—he
was supposed to get a bracket from me the other day, right? When Harley … you
know?”
“He’s not supposed to ride for two weeks,” Shaney recites. “Wind can blow
his stitches out.”
“But he can still tinker around in the garage,” Lewis says. “This’ll help, it’ll
be good.”
“A bracket?” Shaney repeats.
“For his headlight,” Lewis tells her. “I was thinking you could bring it up
there to him, maybe.”
Long pause, in which Lewis imagines Shaney shying away from the bright
window by her bed.
“Think it’s going to take more than a new headlight to get that bike in
shape,” she nally says.
“It’s a start,” Lewis says.
“I’ll have to leave an hour early …” Shaney says, playing up the groan.
“Thank you, thank you,” Lewis says, and gets o the phone before she can
tell him to leave it on the porch like she’s been doing with the books.
For two hours, then, Lewis wears out the carpet, going back and forth,
gesticulating, orchestrating, framing ideas between his held-out ngers, trying
to gure everything through from each possible angle. He tries to work on the
Road King, get it closer to ready to maybe really go back to work, but his mind
is too jumpy, won’t settle down. By midafternoon he’s got the tape measure
out, is duct-taping a free-throw line on the driveway. His rule is he can’t quit
until he makes three in a row, no iron, no backboard, but about fty tries in he’s
counting trash, because, he tells himself, this is basketball, and basketball is made
of trash. Still, he can swish two easy enough, just, the third always back-irons
out at some crazy angle, like the world is laughing at him. Maybe it’s for the
best, though. This way he’ll still be shooting when Peta walks up, and maybe
they can pull a replay of last night, happy ending and all, he’ll even use the same
stupid joke about it not mattering they don’t have any protection out in the
garage—Indians like to go bareback anyway, yeah?
Just like always, Peta will grin and pull his mouth to hers.
It’s looking good for a repeat—well, him being out there when she walks up,
anyway—except then she’s calling, is having to cover some no-account’s shift
again. Some no-account like Lewis, she doesn’t say. Some no-account who just
doesn’t show up, doesn’t even call in.
“Fine, cool, great,” Lewis tells her, the phone going from side to side of his
head because he can’t nd the best way to hold it, can’t gure out what to do
with his hands in the moment, or this whole day. But it is good, her pulling an
extra shift, maybe edging into some overtime. Money’s about to be tight once
his next check’s docked, if there even is a next check, so any way to earn a bit
more’s pretty much just what the doctor ordered.
“Love you,” Lewis says into the phone. “Anything I can do, bring, be?”
It’s his usual sign-o.
“Just yourself,” Peta says like always, and they hang up together.
An hour later he’s warming a can of chili for dinner, eating it with a whole
tube of crackers, all the crumbs raining down into the sink. By nine he’s
nodding o at the kitchen table, and by ten he’s in bed trying to read the fourth
book in the series, a longneck leaning cold against his right side.
Peta says it’s a bad habit to get into, drinking at lights-out, that your body can
forget how to go to sleep on its own, and Lewis is sure she’s right, but she’s not
here, either, and this whole “sleeping” thing seems to always be about to happen
instead of actually happening, anyway. The pages gather in his left hand, thin
out in his right. He’d forgotten how fun this mall is, and what a good contrast
this magic is with the commerce going on around it. It’s cool how the seasons
and the decorations are always changing, kind of giving a theme or motif to
each installment, and it’s hilarious how these pagan characters both recognize
and are seriously insulted by all these holidays—especially the elves. But they’re
insulted by everything.
Inside an hour, nally, gratefully, Lewis starts to lose the line between
reading and sleeping. Because Peta isn’t here to reach across, guide the book o
his chest, careful to save the page, Lewis tells his distant index nger to be a
bookmark, and then, right before the nothing of sleep, he asks himself what’s he
going to do when Shaney’s elk head shows under the fan, and he’s up on the
ladder.
He’ll know at last, but what will he do?
He mutters an answer but his lips and mouth and voice belong to someone
else at this point of almost-sleep, and his ears can’t make out the words, quite.
He feels himself chuckle with satisfaction all the same.
TUESDAY
Lewis is standing on a ve-gallon bucket, looking over the fence at what used to
be Harley’s grave. Something’s dug him up, scattered the blankets and sleeping
bags across the train tracks.
Lewis insists on that: something dug him up. Otherwise Harley struggled
out of the dirt himself and walked up the railbed, that Star Wars sleeping bag
holding on until it snagged on the grabby edge of one of the wooden ties.
Peta was already gone by the time he got up, so she didn’t have to see this.
What’s she made of, Lewis wonders for the ftieth time, that she can crawl in at
one in the morning, be gone again before sunup? Can’t they just shut the
airport down, let her catch a couple more hours’ sleep? But it’s good she’s not
here, too.
Shaney’s coming over.
Lewis eats toast and a candy bar for breakfast, candy bar rst because it makes
the toast taste better.
Something denitely dug Harley up. That’s the only way it could have gone.
Coyotes, probably, but a badger will scavenge as well. He doesn’t want to
picture the long-headed shape ofa woman out there on her kneesat three in the
morning pulling the ground open, but not wanting to have to see it just cleans
the focus on that image up, pretty much.
Lewis is puking into the sink before he even realizes he’s gagging. It’s not
from nerves about Shaney, he tells himself. It’s from thinking about what
Harley must look like now.
When he’s done throwing up he turns the disposal on and a chunk spits back
up at him and he falls down in the kitchen trying to get away.
“You’re doing great,” he tells himself from the oor. “You’re completely
ready, Blackfeet.”
It’s the rst time he’s ever called himself that.
He hand-over-hands his way back to the kitchen table, where at least he
probably can’t fall down. Not as far down, anyway. Well, not from as high.
His ngers busy themselves smoothing down an unruly tuft of the elk hide.
It still doesn’t smell right, but it doesn’t smell like cheese anymore, so that’s
some kind of progress, right?
10:40 already. If Shaney’s shift starts at noon, and for some reason stopping
by here means leaving an hour early, which has to be a lie, then she should be
here in the next ten, fteen minutes, Lewis calculates.
Enough time to unroll that hide. Not for the nicks he knows he left all over
and through it, so it would probably only be good for a few pairs of gloves,
nothing of size, but because …
Maybe some elk are special, right?
What if it wasn’t that she was carrying a calf early? Or, what if she was
carrying that calf early because she needed to get it birthed before … before some
Gabe or Cass or Ricky or Lewis poached her in late spring, or some shed-hunter
popped her with the handgun he only carries for bear?
What if she needed to get that calf out because she was already scheduled to
die, so she could get skinned?
In the museum, behind glass, there’s an old winter count, drawn on … it’s
probably bualo, Lewis imagines. But why not elk?
And who’s to say it’s all drawn, either?
It could be that, back when, the people would bring any hides or skins that
looked dierent in to the old-time version of a postal inspector. Because maybe
some hides, some skins, right when they peel back from the meat, there’salready
some markings there, right? A starting point, maybe. A story of things to come.
Pictures of the winter yet to come.
That day in the snow, the Thanksgiving Classic, there’d been too much
blood and hurry to wipe the skin clean.
But there’s time now.
Lewis clears the table and unrolls it delicately, like parchment.
The back side of the skin is black with freezer burn or something, Lewis isn’t
sure. He tries to wipe it away with paper towels but it’s in the pores like ink,
which he guesses either blows his big theory or proves it, only what this skin is
tattooed with is a storm so bad it eats the world.
“Little late,” Lewis says down to the young elk. Could have used this kind of
warning about 1491 or so.
There is something, though. In the last roll, which would have been the rst
when it was being rolled up, is that trading-post knife that he thought he’d lost.
He’d put it in here, really?
For what reason?
Lewis extracts the knife. The blade that’s on is the short skinning one with
the curved nose. The handle still ts perfect in his hand, too, which is why he
bought it in the rst place. Oh, the adventures he thought they were going to
have.
Instead, that was the last day he ever hunted.
He sits back in his chair, studies the ladder he’s already got set up half under
the fan, already test-leaned over to see if it lines up with the dent in the wall.
Thank you, Peta. Even when she’s not here, she’s saving him.
10:55. Shaney should be here by now.
Lewis stands, studies the living room all over again to see what he’s
forgetting.
Nothing he can think of.
When things are simple, there’s not a lot to keep in mind.
He crosses to the front door, cocks it open, then comes back to the living
room, looking from the Road King’s headlight bracket on the oor and up to
the fan, conrming the angle one last time. It’s dead-on. The elk was right here.
And she’s about to be again.
Lewis puts one foot on the lowest step of the ladder and reaches up for the
red-handled screwdriver on the fourth step, at eye level.
He can’t just be standing on a ladder for no reason, right?
It’s 11:05 before tires crunch up in front of the house.
“Okay, then,” Lewis says, and nods to himself, steps up the ladder until the
spinning blades of the fan are at his hips again.
His angle down onto the headlight bracket on the oor is perfect.
Shaney doesn’t step on the beer can on the porch, just knocks on the door. It
creaks in with her knocking, because Lewis left it slightly ajar.
“Blackfeet?” she calls.
“In here,” Lewis calls back, the screwdriver handle clamped between his lips
muing his words, the strain of keeping both hands busy at the little spotlight
compressing his breath.
“Say what?” Shaney calls back, leaning in, it sounds like.
“In here!” Lewis says, louder, hopefully clearer.
She steps in timidly, like this might be a trap.
“What the hell are you doing up there?” she says from the edge of the living
room.
“Stupid light,” Lewis says, and trying to speak around the screwdriver means
losing grip on that screwdriver. It tumbles down behind him, bounces into the
corner.
“Smooth move, Ex-Lax,” Shaney says with a smile.
“There’s the bracket,” Lewis says, nodding down to it, and then realizes that,
without a screwdriver, why’s he up on the ladder anymore? Why isn’t he
climbing down for the screwdriver?
But he can’t leave this step of the ladder—he has to look down through the
fan, see Shaney’s real self.
His hand, moving on its own almost, rounds to his back pocket, comes back
with the knife from the elk hide. He looks at it like just seeing it, doesn’t
remember having grabbed it.
With this round-nosed skinning blade, though, it’s a putty knife, an art
knife, the widest athead. He swallows it into his hand, works it up into the
space between the spotlight’s buried can and the crumbly ceiling.
“Need help?” Shaney asks, and Lewis looks to her, shakes his head, and nally
sees her for the rst time. She’s dressed for work, just normal clothes, same
annel as ever, but her hair’s still done from, he guesses, the night before. It’s
spiral-curled but still forever long, over half her face.
No, Peta does not need to come home, nd Shaney here looking like this.
But it’s fake, too, Lewis reminds himself. She’s showing him what he wants
to see, she’s making herself up like this specically to get to him.
“So when are you coming back?” Shaney asks. “There’s a pool at work, you
know?”
“Tomorrow,” Lewis says, straining with the fake adjustment he’s doing on
the light. “Day after.”
“Make it Friday and I’ll split the take,” Shaney says.
“What’s the pool up to?” Lewis asks, because he’s no dumb Indian.
Shaney just smiles, nods across to the headlight bracket, says, “Frankenface
will know what this is?”
“His name is Silas,” Lewis says.
“Past tense,” Shaney says, and, stepping down into the living room at last, she
reaches over to the bank of switches, turns the fan o, nding the control rst
try.
Lewis’s heart drops. His face goes numb.
She knows exactly what he’s doing.
“I’m saving your life,” she says, and is to the couch now, is squatting down,
knees together, to collect the bracket.
Lewis zeroes in on her through the fan but the blades are already sagging,
losing their speed, the rate of icker slowing, slowing.
Through them like that, Shaney’s just Shaney.
“No, no, turn it on,” Lewis says, pleading, holding hard onto the ladder.
“The—the switches. When the fan’s o, the power comes on for this light.”
“What kind of bullshit wiring job is that?” Shaney asks, looking from the fan
to the light in disbelief. But, using up the rest of the wishes Lewis has left for his
whole life, the bulb in the spotlight ickers the slightest bit. Just the lament
glowing on for a moment, but it’s enough.
Lewis looks from it down to Shaney and she shrugs, cradles the bracket,
careful of the bolts he intentionally left hanging, and crosses to the switches,
turns the fan back on. It whirs back up like sad to have been turned o after
such a long and constant run.
“Oh, hey,” Lewis says, pointing with the knife to the carpet in front of the
couch. “That fall out?”
The fan pushes Shaney’s hair across her face but she clears it, looks down to
the bracket, touches the three bolts in the outer ring, shrugs up to Lewis.
“There, there,” he says, still pointing, and she steps across, her legs coming
into the tunnel of vision the spinning blades are carving, but then, her face just
out of it, she looks up, says, “You trying to see down my shirt, Blackfeet?”
She looks down to her own chest and, instead of pinching the annel
together at her throat, she pops it out, lets it slap back, then looks up to Lewis
with a little bit of devil to her eyes.
“No, no,” Lewis says, coming a step down the ladder to see her face through
the blades, but, at this angle, at this getting-there speed, it’s just Shaney.
Shit.
Shit shit shit.
But still, that she knew not to step into that space? That she knew to turn the
fan o?
“If it’s a loose connection,” she says, “you have to, like, jam something in right
there.” She points with her free hand to the spotlight, and because he’s the one
faking this repair job, Lewis has to play along.
She stepsahead, to see the lightaround the fan, and Lewis takesa step higher,
high enough to work the blade of the knife up beside the can.
Just like she said, the little spotlight glows on, holds steady.
“Pay me later,” she says, already turning around, drawn by the elk hide on
the table.
Lewis climbs down, follows her.
“What happened to it?” Shaney asks, still almost touching it but not quite.
“Neanderthals,” Lewis says, the funniest joke.
Shaney just looks up at him, squinting.
In the fourth book, the one she just returned, there’s Neanderthals slouching
around the mall with their heavy spears and heavy brows, and it’s kind of the
running joke. Every time there’s the next version of “Cleanup on aisle nine,”
Andy shakes his head, spitsair, and says, Neanderthals, like they were put in the
mall specically to ruin his life.
Lewis swallows hard, a thrill rushing through him, all the way to his
ngertips.
“You’re kind of weird, you know?” Shaney says.
“Me and Andy, yeah,” Lewis says.
While it might be possible to somehow forget “Neanderthals,” each
installment in the series is Andy the Something: Andy the Water Bringer, Andy
the Giant Slayer, Andy the Unemployed. The fourth one is, of course, Andy the
Mammoth Rider. No way could she not know who he’s talking about, here.
Shaney holds Lewis’s eyes for a moment like checking if he’s for real, then
makes the turn to the front door.
“Wait,” Lewis says, his heart pounding in his chest, his face heating up with
possibility. “That’s the wrong one,” he blurts, making this up as he goes.
Shaney looks down to the headlight bracket she’s holding.
“I think about anything will match his bike,” she says.
“I’ve got the right one,” Lewis says. “It’s just out here, I just saw it …”
Shaney just holds him in her stare, like waiting for him to draw the curtain
on whatever charade or joke this is going to be.
“You can go out this way,” Lewis says, stepping past her for the garage door,
not giving her a chance to say no.
He grinds the big door up, which brings the light on, then he just stands
there inspecting all the parts strewn across the concrete and boxes and old
towels.
“What happened?” Shaney says, impressed.
“It always gets like this,” Lewis tells her, trying not to let on how fast things
are cycling through his head. It’s like that icker rate he needed to see through to
the real, it’s behind his eyes now.
He’s afraid to look directly back at Shaney. Instead he jogs three steps ahead,
knocks on the basketball to get it dribbled up.
“Forgot your best friend the other day,” he says, and underhands it across to
her, hardly even a pass at all. Instead of one-handing it to her hip like he knows
she can do, she steps to the side, lets the ball lob on past, still watching him like
trying to gure him out.
“Oh, oh, you’ll like this,” he says, stepping across to the Road King.
“I’ve got to get to work, Blackfeet,” Shaney says back, trying to pick a path to
freedom.
“Just wait, wait,” Lewis says, and comes around to the other side of the bike,
the side without the purple crate. He crosses the poles, throws some sparks, but
pulls the current before the engine can start up, so that it sounds like a failure,
like it choked down. “Shit, shit,” he says, shaking his hand like he got burned,
and leans over to look inside. “Oh, of course,” he aha’s, and, without looking
up, does his right hand to pull Shaney over.
She approaches slowly, uncertainly.
“I’ve heard a motorcycle before,” she tells him.
“New pipe,” Lewis tells her, and is still guiding her closer, closer. “You’ve got
to—” he says, nally looking up. “Here, here,” he says, taking the headlight
bracket from her, setting it down wherever on his side. “This vacuum hose right
here, just plug it so I can turn the engine over. Should start right up.”
Shaney inspects the Road King like for safety, says, about the rear wheel and
all the dangerous possibilities there, “How about just show me when you’ve got
it together, yeah? I promise to be real impressed.”
“I want you to tell Silas,” Lewis says then, like embarrassed to be admitting
it. “Don’t tell him this part, it’s still secret, but I ordered him the same exhaust.
As, you know, apology. Just tell him how throaty this sounds.”
“I don’t have to actually hear it to—” she begins, but Lewis isalready leaning
over, guiding her nger-nger to the open end of the vacuum tube, its junction
right there, which would be so much easier to stopper it with.
Is this the rst time he’s touched her skin to skin? It might be, he thinks.
There’s no sparks, no ood of memories or accusations rushing in, no replay
of four Indians pouring lead down a slope.
“You’re making me late, Blackfeet,” Shaney says, and Lewis, coming back to
his side, realizes he can see down her shirt for a ash.
She sees him seeing, says, “All you had to do was ask, yeah?”
“No, it’s not like—” Lewis starts, and then they both turn to the basketball,
slowly rolling down the slope of the garage like the biggest, softest, most drunk
pinball.
“This better not get me dirty,” Shaney says over the wide tank, her eyes
locked on his, like she means the exact opposite.
“I know who you are,” Lewis says back right as the engine cranks over, and
that narrows her eyes because she couldn’t have heard that right, and, just like
that last day hunting, this is the moment where he could back out, this is where
he could stop this from happening. He could break the connection, kill the
bike, make like he said something else—Watch out for your hair, yeah. That
would be the perfect thing to have said.
Except that’s exactly what he doesn’t want her doing.
She killed Harley, he makes himself remember. She killed Harley and she’s
trying to turn Peta against him. And the nal way he can tell she is what she is,
the thing that gave her away for sure, even more than the basketball, it’s that she
doesn’t know about Andy the Mammoth Rider. The books were just props to
her, justexcuses to be over here, turning the wheels of her plan. If she really had
read book four, then she would have ridden that emotional roller coaster Lewis
and the rest of the world had to ride after Andy “died” at the end of book three,
and then was a no-show for the rst half of book four. He wasn’t pulling a
Gandalf, though, was just trapped in the zzy world inside the fountain drink
dispenser, waiting for the right set of circumstances to get born into the world
again—which turned out to be a mammoth one of his ancestors had driven
over a cli, except that mammoth had fallen into a pool that was right where the
fountain was. So, when that mammoth fell again, like happens when time is a
cycle, the elves carved Andy up from its belly. At rst he was just a skinny
mammoth fetus, but then he grew into himself over the course of a single day,
rode that dead mammoth’s mate right through the makeup and perfume
department, became the true champion and savior he was always meant to be. It
wasn’t the kind of return a person forgets, especially if she just read it.
“You know who I am?” Shaney says over the scream of the unmuered
four-stroke, still holding that dummy vacuum tube shut with the pad of her
index nger, and that’s all she gets out before this thing is happening.
The drive belt is on Lewis’s side of the bike—Shaney isn’t stupid, Elk Head
Woman isn’t stupid, she would have clocked that danger, that little conveyor
belt of instant death—but he started it in rst gear, meaning that naked rear
wheel he’s already got in place, it’s spinning as well, is an instant silver blur.
It takes maybe half a second for those chrome spokes to grab her long spiral
curls, crank her head both up and to the side, her neck obviously cracking. But
her hair’s still pulling, still winding into the spinning spokes, the flickering
spokes. An instant after her neck breaks, the top of her head scalps o and her
forehead tilts loosely down into the rear wheel, the spokes shearing skull as easy
asanything, carving down into the pulpy-warm outside of her brain. It’s greyish
pink where it’s been opened, and kind of covered with a pale sheath all around
that, the blood just now seeping into the folds and crevices.
Lewis backs o the throttle, lets the starter wires go.
Silence. Just that bare wheel winding down. Shaney’s throat is still sucking
air in, her eyes locked on Lewis, calling him traitor, calling him killer, calling
him “Blackfeet” one last time. Then she falls back, slumping into the sleeping
bags and random parts, her left foot twitching, a line of saliva, not blood,
threading down from the corner of her mouth. But there is bright red aerated
blood—a spattery stripe bisecting the garage, going from oor to wall to ceiling
then down the other wall again. It’s a line between who Lewis used to be and
who he is now.
He stands, pushes the button on the wall.
It’s time to lower the door on all this.
STILL TUESDAY
Lewis never built the sweat he wanted, but if he stands in the upstairs shower
long enough that it’s all steam, he can pretend, can’t he? The blood and brains
Shaney splashed on his face swirls down the drain, is gone forever.
Her little yellow Toyota truck is still pulled up outside, but once he’s clean
he can drive it wherever, walk back, no witnesses. Yes, Officer, she stepped by for
a part, but she left with that part. The proof of that is—hey, that part’s not here,
right?
Easy as that.
Now the next ten years of his life can start, nally. Payment came due for
that young elk, for all nine of those elk—ten if the unborn calf counts—but,
this far from the reservation, he just managed to duck paying it.
As for what to do with Shaney herself, his rst instinct is to bury her with
Harley, but the cops are going to be digging there before too long, and the noon
train’s coming through anyway, and he doesn’t need an audience for that kind
of work.
No, for once in his life he’s going to be smart about a thing. And he’s not
even really a killer, since she wasn’t even really a person, right? She was just an
elk he shot ten years ago Saturday. One who didn’t know she was already dead.
Still, his soapy hand, when he raises it into the stream of hot water, it’s
trembling, won’t stop trembling. Twice so far he’s ripped the shower curtain to
the side, sure he saw a shadowed gure standing out there, sure he’d heard a
door creak, or footsteps. Hooves.
It’s just nerves, he tells himself. Any rst-timer would be having the same
exact panic attack now.
He puts his face into that scalding water some more, promises himself not to
crank his brain up, but it cranks up anyway, can’t stop dwelling on how could it
be that Shaney didn’t seem comfortable around a basketball, didn’t
automatically catch it like any real player would have to, just let it slip past like
an object, not a thing she’d sweated countless hours over.
But, could she still be that same player she was before? Did she sidestep that
pass because she was holding a delicate bracket? Did she dodge it because, unlike
him, she’s not obligated to catch a ball she didn’t ask to be thrown?
It doesn’t matter. What does is that she didn’t know the books.
Lewis steps out, towels o, his shape blurry in the mirror.
She didn’t know about the books, he repeats in his head.
Meaning?
Meaning she was Elk Head Woman.
Because?
Because she was lying.
That means she’s a monster?
Lewis squats down in the hall, his face in his hands, his head shaking back
and forth to resist this line of reasoning.
No, he nally has to admit to himself.
It doesn’t mean for sure she’s that monster, but added together with the
basketball being so alien to her, and her knowing where to stand in the living
room, and to turn the fan o, and, and: What about how she wouldn’t touch
her own hide on the kitchen table?
Lewis stands nodding.
That, yeah.
She could have been lying about the books just for an excuse to break up his
marriage, because that’s what she does, that’s the human thing she just does, but
touching the skin she’d worn the last time she was alive, that probably would
have made her relive her rst death all over again, wouldn’t it have?
Lewis nods. It would have, yes. Denitely.
Oh, and also: She was lying about having to leave an hour early, wasn’t she?
What she really wanted was more time alone over here before work. And Lewis
can prove this.
He calls work again, gets Margie on the line again.
“You must really want to hear my voice,” she tells him.
“Shaney,” he says, switching ears like that can get across how much he
doesn’t have time for small talk, “she—she never showed up, but if I run I think
I can catch her, but I don’t know her address—the ower farm, right?”
It’s stupid, nobody lives over there, it’s probably not even zoned for
residential, but it was the rst sort of close place he could dredge up.
Margie’s silence means she’s weighing this for the bullshit it is.
“Please, please, Jerry’ll kick my ass if I’m not there,” Lewis adds, bouncing
up and down like that can help make his case.
It’s that easy to get an address.
Moments later, still in his towel, he has the fold-out map of Great Falls
spread over the back of the elk hide, his hair dripping all over the red and blue
lines.
“No way,” he says when he nally nds Shaney’s place.
She did have to leave an hour early, because she does live all the way on the
other side of town—Gibson Flats. That’s not even really Great Falls at all, is it?
But, at the same time, she did really leave with the books. And they have really
been showing back up, haven’t they?
Lewis plunks down into a chair, his eyes lost.
Finally, an explanation bubbles up.
It’s thin, it’s anorexic, but: What if she read the rst chapter or two of book
one, and it wasn’t for her, was just stupid elves in trench coats, halings at the
hot dog stand, so she drove the whole long-ass way over, dropped all ten books
o on Lewis’s porch?
That would explain her not knowing about the story, the people in it.
But, then, who found that stack? Who’s been parsing them out one here,
two there? And why?
To make you do what you did, Lewis hears in his head, in a colder voice than
his own.
He stands breathing hard, shaking his head no.
She was Elk Head Woman. She had to be. She was—she’s the only Indian in
his life down here, right? Lewis sees other Indians out and about, but that’s
always just a nod without stopping. No, if it’s going to be anybody, it’s her.
There is one last way to tell, though, isn’t there? One way she wrote in the
back of the third book?
Lewis goes to the corner of the living room behind the ladder, comes back
with the red-handled screwdriver.
Next, the garage, the mound of sleeping bags and blankets.
He pulls them back from Shaney, tries to close her eyes that won’t stay
closed.
Not gagging even a little, he threads her scalped hair up from her mouth
where he’d stued it, thinking that had to be some old-time Indian shit. That
she didn’t ght back when he was burying her in the sleeping bagsand blankets,
that meant it worked, the hair in the mouth.
This next part, though. Getting her hair into the spokes of the Road King,
that was easy in comparison. This is a lot more involved.
But Lewis has skinned out he doesn’t know how many elk and deer. Once
even a moose, right? He’s even delivered an embryo or a fetus up from a
pregnant young elk, one he didn’t tell Peta was still kind of struggling in its
thin, veiny bag.
He can do this.
First is opening her mouth with his ngers, then it’s forcing his hand in as
deep as he can and pulling down hard, breaking the jaw at the crunchy-wet
hinge so he can have the kind of access he needs. So he can see her top row of
teeth.
Elk Head Woman told him what to look for, didn’t she? She told him how
he’d know her.
(ivory)
He positions the screwdriver between a canine tooth and the next one over
and jams the red handle with the heel of his hand, driving it in deep enough to
lever out the canine he needs, bloody root and all. Because she’s fresh, the tooth
doesn’t want to let go.
It does, though. Along with the one he was using for leverage.
Lewis rattles them in his hand, considers it lucky to have accidentally pulled
two. That way he can compare them: normal and ivory.
Except both of these are the same.
He gets some carb cleaner, sprays them down because there’s got to be ivory
in there somewhere. When there’s not, he closes hiseyes, falls to his knees on the
sleeping bags.
Next he’s laughing to himself, and sort of crying.
Work didn’t have to be so short-staed, did it?
NATIVE AMERICAN MAN SINGLEHANDEDLY TAKES DOWN USPS.
He’s trying to work a grin up about that headline when he nds his eyes xed
on the stomach of Shaney’s annel shirt. Because that’s not where the blood and
damage is, it’s as safe a place as any to concentrate on, maybe even better than
most. But … no. No no no.
He can untuck that shirt if he wants, can’t he? He can untuck it, pull it up to
check if she’s got that long vertical knot of scar tissue. If she does, if she was elddressed, then—then she was denitely Elk Head Woman.
Unless she got butchered on an operating table. Unless some drunk IHS
doctor scarred her for life, made her into a woman always trying to get eyes to
focus on her chest, not below that.
Lewis shakes his head no, doesn’t want to have to do this, doesn’t want to
have to know either way. What if she doesn’t have that scar at all, right?
Still, he owes it to her, even has his hand to her stomach, his ngers bunching
the annel up into his palm, is going to look around, face this truth. On the
count of three. Now on this next count of three.
What saves him—who, who always saves him—it’s Peta.
The front door opens, then closes.
Shit.
Fast, fast, he gets Shaney buried again. He can still make this work. Peta
doesn’t have to know. That’s hydraulic uid splashed all over the ceiling and
walls. It smells like opened body because of Harley.
It takes thirty seconds to stop hyperventilating, and then another full minute
to clear his eyes.
Nodding to himself for strength or something like it, Lewis walks into the
kitchen, ready to jerk his head up like surprised by Peta being here, unloading
her lunch box. She’s notat the counter like always, though. To nd her he has to
look up, and up.
She’s … now she’s on the ladder?
“You gured it out!” she says, her whole face a smile, like the last two or three
back-to-back shifts don’t even matter, suddenly.
“What?”
“The whole thing’s loose,” she says, and wiggles the knife jammed in
alongside the light.
The bulb ickers on, goes back o.
A warm smile crosses Lewis’s face.
He did x it. This is the perfect gift, the best surprise. He is a good husband.
Smiling like it was nothing, he walks past the table, into the living room, and
only slows when he catches the way Peta’s looking him up and down, slow and
unsure.
“What?” he says, and only then does he look down to his hands, wrist-deep in
Shaney’s blood. It’s probably splashed onto his chest and face, too, from the
tooth extraction, and it’s not hydraulic uid—the Road King doesn’t have this
much hydraulic uid.
The red against the white of the towel is unmistakable.
“Are you ok—?” Peta says, eyes xed on him, stepping down the ladder
without looking, probably concerned that he’s hurt himself bad enough to go
into shock, and that’s how it happens, that’s why it happens: because she’s
worried he might be cut somewhere. The left toe of her work boot that she’s no
longer paying attention to, thick for safety, misses the next rung, and her other
foot was already shifting, and she knows better than to clutch onto the sides of
the ladder because that just means bringing it down with her, and there’s
already one gouge in the wall.
Just from instinct, probably, her hands slash up, to try to nd something to
hold her.
What she nds is the handle of the knife jammed in alongside the spotlight’s
can. She brings it down with her, and, instead of bursting across the room to
tackle her into the wall like a good husband would, Lewis stands there clutching
his towel, watching this happen in what feels like the slowest motion ever.
Anybody but Peta would fall down into the rungs, get tangled up, break
their fall with their basic awkwardness.
She used to be a pole vaulter, though.
She knows to push o, to arc away.
It’s beautifully executed, and, being her, she even manages to ing the knife
to the side so it won’t impale her on landing like Lewis guesses he was expecting,
since everything else is already going wrong.
Peta’s used to falling onto huge mats, though. Not the sharp brick corner of
the replace hearth, back-of-the-head rst.
The cracking sound of her skull opening up is distinct, and permanent, and
looking away doesn’t help Lewis process it, or accept it.
Just like with Harley, he doesn’t rush up to hold her in these last moments.
He just stares, shocked.
Her body spasms and her breath hitches for maybe ten seconds, her eyes
locked on him like trying to communicate something, like … like trying to relive
the last ten years with him? Like, now she can go back to sitting at that picnic
bench in East Glacier and start the two of them all over again, live it right up
until now. What was she drawing that day? Was she drawing her dream house,
complete with replace and a little apron of brick before it, “hearth” labeled
above it? Did she know all along this was what was going to happen, but then
did it anyway, because these ten years were worth it?
“Peta,” Lewis nally says, seconds and a lifetime too late.
The corners of her mouth grin just a little and then, like has to happen, her
hips die down with the rest of her, like electricity’s leaving her body, is running
into the ground or wherever it goes.
Lewis is still just standing there.
Peta’s blond hair is staining red, spreading out into the pale carpet. It’s not a
stain he’s getting out. No, they’re not getting the security deposit back.
“Hey,” he says when he can, once he’s sure it’s too late, once he’s sure she’s
not going to be answering.
Her pupils are xed and dilated, her mouth open in a way she’d never let it
hang in life.
Ten years, Lewis says to himself.
They made it ten years.
That’s a pretty good run, isn’t it? For an Indian and a white woman,
especially when she outclassed him so much, and when he had all the usual
baggage?
And—and maybe he was thinking right all along, he tries hard to believe.
Maybe she appeared the summer after the Thanksgiving Classic for a reason—
because she wanted to move from place to place with him, get him to invest his
whole life in her, then stage a grand death scene like this, one he’d never be able
to shake, would always be running from.
Wouldn’t that be the best revenge? Death is too easy. Better to make every
moment of the rest of a person’s life agony.
Like with Shaney, though, there’s a way to check. A way to know.
Lewis steps up onto the ladder to pull the knife from the wall where it stuck.
Because the way he broke Shaney’s jaw open let her teeth cut into his wrist like a
bite from the wrong side of the grave, for Peta he grabs her chin from the
outside, sets his knee against her forehead, and cracks the hinge that way.
Her teeth come out so much easier. All of them, like they were just waiting,
were hardly in there at all. Maybe that’s a dierence between white people and
Indians?
Lewis lines all her teeth in a rough crack of grout between the bricks of the
hearth.
None of them are ivory either.
He sits back, hugs his legs to him, resting his chin in the cradle between his
knees.
This is a thing he did, a thing he’s denitely done.
Planes are probably going to be crashing into the terminal for months now,
and mail’s going to be piling up on the dock at the post oce.
In addition, two women are dead who probably didn’t have to be.
Lewis stares into what would be the re if the chimney weren’t boarded up
—the lease says no open ames, only gas grills—and then he has no real choice
but to smile when the light in the ceiling ickers on, even without its can being
pressed to the side.
It’s shining its bright little spotlight down on Peta. On her … stomach? Her
belly?
Because everything means something now, what Lewis ashes on is that upand-down scar that either is or isn’t on Shaney’s stomach in the garage.
It’sa scar he knows for sure Peta doesn’t have. But still, he’s thinking of it for
a reason, isn’t he? Or, the world showed it to him in the driveway that day for a
reason.
Soon enough, that reason pushes against the tight fabric of Peta’s uniform
shirt.
Something’s struggling under there. Something’s moving.
It’s like—it’s like when Andy was trapped in the belly of that dead
mammoth, but for Lewis, for this, it’s not a mammoth in there, is it?
“Indians like it bareback,” he hears himself recite, and chuckles about it.
Some of his salmon were pretty good swimmers.
Sure, it’s only been, what? Two nights? That’s plenty, though. Nine months
would be a luxury, an indulgence, would take so long he’d probably forget.
And anyway, Peta would be all falling apart by then.
Forty-eight hours to gestate feels just about perfect, to Lewis.
He can even see some tiny limb pushing against Peta’s skin now. Something
in there suocating, drowning, ghting to live.
His plan, only half formed but that’s how he does it, had been to stand after a
few more minutes, stand and feel his way outside, op over the fence, sit
between the two rails of the train tracks, wait for the Thunderball Express to
come, deliver his judgment at sixty miles per hour, its air horn lling the whole
world with sound.
But this is something new, something unexpected, something wondrous.
Lewis never thought he might be a father.
There’s still hope, isn’t there?
This can all still work out.
Using the same dull knife he used to pry Peta’s teeth out, the same one he
used to carve open that young elk ten years ago, he slits the tight skin of Peta’s
swelling-up belly.
A thin brown leg stabs up and he grabs on to it, traces it to its terminus.
A hoof, a tiny black hoof.
Lewis nods about the rightness of this, pulls that leg gently, his other hand
ready.
Two days later, his elk calf wrapped in its mother’s ten-year-old hide, he
wakes under a rock ledge that’s partway between the rent house in Great Falls
and the reservation he still calls his reservation.
Shaney’s yellow Toyota truck is two or three miles back on the plains, tucked
just in from the gas station where he’s pretty sure someone called him in, from
all the headlines that made the rounds Wednesday: NATIVE MAN ON KILLING
SPREE, TWO DEAD SO FAR, BABY MISSING.
The story on 12b is him, here, sleeping in the cold like the bow-and-arrow
days. The story on 12b is how he looks up into the huge white akes drifting
down out of the sky, just like the Thanksgiving Classic.
He raises his face to those cold wet akes, closes his eyes, holds this elk calf
he’s been calling his daughter close to his chest. She hasn’t been growing as fast
as Andy, and she hasn’t moved since stabbing that leg up into the air, but she
will, he knows. He just has to get her home, to land she knows, to grass she
remembers. He’ll watch her grow for the rest of the year, keep the coyotes and
wolves and bears away, and, when she can, he’ll let her go on her own, stand
there crying from sadness, from happiness. And then it’ll all be over. Indian
stories always hoop back on themselves like that, don’t they? At least the good
ones do.
Lewis smiles, pulls her tighter, breathing heat down onto her thin ears, and
on the ridge above him there’s four men sighting down along the tops of their
ries. He looks up to them, his lips moving, trying to explain to them what he’s
doing, how this can work, how it’s not too late, how they don’t need to do this,
it’s not like the papers have been saying, he’s not that Indian, he’s just him,
locked into the steps of this story but nding his way now, nally, making it all
work.
When they shoot is when he nally feels what he’s been waiting for, what
he’s been gambling on, praying for: long delicate legs against his chest, kicking
once, twice, again. That small head nuzzling up into his neck, and the long
lashes of big round eyes brushing his cheek as they open, and then closing
against the mist of blood that, for the moment, is its whole world.
Her name in Blackfeet is Po’noka.
It means elk.
THREE DEAD, ONE INJURED IN MANHUNT
Four Shelby men were attacked last night, following the apprehension of the fugitive Lewis A. Clarke
(see Wednesday’s edition), who had apparently been eeing back to his tribe’s ancestral reservation.
Clarke was the main suspect in the brutal murders of both his wife and a federal coworker.
Reports indicate this group of four hunters had been out all day, aiding in the search for Clarke.
Representatives for the highway patrol say that while armed citizen patrols of this sort might seem
helpful, staying o the roads is actually more benecial to recovery and apprehension eorts.
Reports that these four Shelby men were actually the ones to nd Clarke, now deceased, are
unconrmed.
According to sources at the hospital, who were able to speak to the lone survivor before surgery, the
four Shelby men had in the back of their truck both Clarke and the deer or elk calf he had apparently
been carrying for reasons unknown.
At some point in the drive back to town, according to this survivor, someone stood from the bed of
the truck while it was moving. It was a girl of twelve or fourteen, Indian. Presumably she had climbed
into the truck earlier, when it was going west.
When the driver of the vehicle slowed to keep her from falling or blowing out, and alerted his three
cab mates to her, the survivor says the girl “rushed forward over the toolbox” and “through the rear
window” into the cab, which is where the eyewitness testimony ends.
Anyone nding an Indian teenager perhaps hitchhiking or loitering is advised to alert the authorities.
Names of the dead and injured are being withheld until families of the slain can be notied.
More on this story as it develops.
SWEAT LODGE MASSACRE
FRIDAY
The way you protect your calf is you slash out with your hooves. Your own
mother did that for you, high in the mountains of your rst winter. Her black
hoof snapping forward against those snarling mouths was so fast, so pure, just
there and back, leaving a perfect arc of red droplets behind it. But hooves aren’t
always enough. You can bite and tear with your teeth if it comes to that. And
you can run slower than you really can. If none of that works, if the bullets are
too thick, your ears too lled with sound, your nose too thick with blood, and if
they’ve already gotten to your calf, then there’s something else you can do.
You hide in the herd. You wait. And you never forget.
What you do after you’ve made your hard way back into the world is stand
on the side of the last road home, wrapped in a blanket torn from a wrecked
truck, your cold feet not hard hooves anymore, your hands branching out into
ngers you can feel creaking, they’re growing so fast now. The family of four
that picks you up is tense and silent, neither the father nor the mother nor the
son saying anything with their mouths, only their eyes, the infant just sleeping.
They make room in the backseat because if they don’t stop, someone else will,
and the father driving the car says that that never ends well for starved-down
fourteen-year-old Indian girls wearing only one thin blanket.
You’re fourteen, then. Already.
Just a few hours ago you’re pretty sure you were what he would have called
“twelve.” An hour before that you were an elk calf being cradled by a killer,
running for the reservation, and before that you were just an awareness spread
out through the herd, a memory cycling from brown body to brown body,
there in every ick of the tail, every snort, every long probing glare down a
grassy slope.
But you coalesced, you congealed, you found one of the killers about to
spark life into the body of another, a life you could wriggle into, look out of. He
had to be groomed rst, though, groomed and cornered and isolated.
It was so easy. He was so fragile, so delicately balanced, so unprepared to face
what he’d done.
You settle into the soft fragrant backseat of the car taking you the rest of the
way home. The father behind the wheel turns the radio knob constantly
backward and forward, looking for a song that may not exist, and the mother
beside him, holding the new calf—baby, baby baby baby—to her chest, she’s
staring out the side window, maybe at all the dry grass slipping by.
The boy in the backseat with you smells like chemicals. They steam up from
his skin and hiseyesare wetand mad behind his waist-long hair, and in him you
can sense all hisancestors before him, and you’re surprised he doesn’t recognize
you for what you are.
You say something to him in your own language, this mouth and teeth and
throatand tongue not made for the shape of these words, and the boy just stares
at you for a long moment, says, “What are you?” and then rotates in the seat,
away from you.
So he does sense you. Just, not in a way he can acknowledge.
Good, good.
If you can’t interact with him, then interact with the grassland sweeping past
with so little eort. Lean over to the center of the backseat to see the white
mountains rolling up. It feels like you’re rushing, like you’re stretched out and
running. You can’t help but smile a bit from the feeling, from the velocity. It’s
your rst smile in this face. On the last hill down to the town, though, your
smile droops when the necessary memory rises, from seeing the train tracks
from far away and above like this.
The memory is an old one, not your generation but a few before, a thing
that happened right there to the south, just past where the last fence is. The
memory is of how the herd came down here in the night. How they found good
grass closer and closer to the buildings, where nothing much ever grazed, and
then they kept eating and eating, bloating their sides out because they needed
this to get through the winter that was coming.
But then the hunters stepped out onto their porches, saw tall brown bodies
in the waving yellow, and reached back inside for their ries.
They approached on their bellies all morning, and the herd knew they were
there, their smell so tangy, their crawling so loud, but the grass was good and the
horizon was open on the other side from the hunters. The herd could run as
one when they needed to run, could dig in with their hooves, bunch their
haunches and burst away, move like blown smoke across the rolling prairie,
collect in a coulee they knew. The water that ran through that rocky bottom
was already trickling through their heads. From its taste they knew exactly
where it came from in the mountains, and its whole story getting here.
They didn’t know about trains, though. Not like the hunters did.
When the locomotive and all its boxcars thundered through, the scent hot
and metal, it was as if those tracks in the grass had stood up. They became a
ashing moving wall of sparks and wind no elk could run through (one tried)
and the screeching and tearing of those great metal wheels covered the boom of
the hunters’ ries ring again and again, until the sound of the ries and the
sound of the train were the same sound, and in the backseat of this impossibly
fast car you reel from the acrid taste of this memory, causing the chemical boy in
the backseat to pull away from you even more, but it was fair, what happened
that day, and it had been the herd’s own fault.
You run when you rst taste hunters on the air, don’t you? When you rst
even think that might be their ugly scent. One more pull of grass isn’t worth it.
Even if it’s good and rich. Even if you need it worse than anything.
Knowledge of this day lodged in the herd, got passed down like what
headlights meant, like how those blocks of salt aren’t for elk tongues in the
daytime, like how the taste of smoke means to walk somewhere else slowly, head
down, feet light. The price of the knowledge about trains had been high and the
coming winter harder, as less hooves means more wolves, but the herd didn’t
feed down near town anymore, and they didn’t trust the metal tracks anywhere
they encountered them, knew they could stand up into a sudden wall.
Instead they kept to the high country, the lonely places where the air tasted of
trees and cold and the herd, the places the trucks never lurched into.
Until one did.
In the backseat of this speeding car you thin your lips, remembering that day
as well.
An elk mother, cornered, will slash with her hoovesand tear with her mouth
and even oer the hope of her own hamstrings, and if none of that works, she’ll
rise again yearsand years later, because it’s never over, it’salways just beginning
again.
The father lets you out in the parking lot of the grocery store, where you’ve
told him with this new voice that you can call your aunt, but you’re really only
there to dip into another car that’s not even locked. You stand from that car
with a duel bag of clothes, never mind the starving dogs circling around now,
snarling and tearing at the air, the wiry hair at their spines maned up, tails
tucked over their soft parts.
You snap your teeth back at them, watch them roil with spit-ecked rage,
writhe with desire they want you so bad, want you gone even worse.
Town is such a funny place, isn’t it?
You can’t rid yourself of the annoyance of these dogs without drawing more
annoyances, though. But you won’t be here long.
It’s another thing the herd’s always known: never stay in one place. Keep
moving, always moving.
First, though, one of their calves is sitting in eighth-grade geography—girl,
girl girl girl, not “calf.” And this girl has this certain father you remember, and
that father, he has a friend you remember as well, from looking up a long snowy
slope, their monstrous forms black against the sky.
For them, ten years ago, that’s another lifetime.
For you it’s yesterday.
THE GIRL
Her name is Denorah. Her dad used to tell her she was supposed to have been
Deborah, since that was the name of one of her dead aunts, but his handwriting
had never been so good, and then he’d smile that sharp-at-the-right-side smile
that had probably been killer in high school, a hundred thousand beers ago.
Her dad is Gabriel Cross Guns. He’s the one who shot the hole in your back,
took your legs away.
In Denorah’s eighth-grade geography right now, six days before
Thanksgiving turkey, Mr. Massey is saying that all of the details aren’t in, that it
might have been highway patrol that shot that Native American man just o
the reservation, that it doesn’t have to have been vigilantes or militia, even
though this state is stacked deep with the second, all of them hoping to be the
rst.
“Native American?” Tone Def says back to Mr. Massey. “I thought he was
Blackfeet.”
“Tone Def” is Amos After Bualo’s hip-hop name.
The class falls in behind him against Mr. Massey. Not because they care, but
because it’s fun to harass the white teacher.
Tone Def Amos—the name he’s earned—stands up from the desks, calls out
about is there really some big difference between state troopers and idiots with
guns anyway, at which point Christina or one of them over by the window says
back that this dead Indian who nobody on the reservation really remembers
anyway, he killed his wife and gutted the baby from her and pulled all her teeth
out, didn’t he? Does it matter who shot him down for that? And now voicesare
rising and more kids are standing and a couple are crying already just from the
tragedy and drama of it all and there’s probably not going to be any geography
going on today.
Denorah pages her spiral notebook over to a blank page and tries to think if
she really even remembers this Blackfeet who got shot. His name, sure. His
name was a joke, except this joke had been by the dead Indian’s parents, who
probably came up with it down the hall in history class. But it’s hard to tease
what she actually remembers apart from what she’s been told twenty or thirty
times.
There is this dim sort-of image of her dad and Cassidy, as he likes to be called
now even though it’sa girl name. They’re crossing the living room before dawn
on a Saturday, and Denorah’s sleeping on the couch, just a kid, not even in
kindergarten yet. At the door are two not-yet-dead Indians: the joke-named one
just shot down over by Shelby, and Ricky Boss, who she’s pretty sure died from
getting beat up outside a bar over in North Dakota. Unless that was somebody
else. But she’s pretty sure about the North Dakota part.
Anyway, Denorah remembers this early morning living room not because it
was the Saturday before Thanksgiving, and not because her real dad and Cassidy
were being too loud with their hot-hot coee. It’s not because the knocking at
the door woke her from sleeping on the couch, either. Her real dad longstepped past her to keep the door quiet, Cassidy right behind. It was Ricky Boss
and that other dead one, Lewis, with ries slung over their shoulders and sleep
in their eyes. The only reason Denorah has any of this left ten years later, now,
it’s because when Ricky Boss was slurping from his coee, the steam like a veil
in front of his eyes, he was looking straight through it at her on the couch, like
he knew what was going to happen that day, hunting, and wanted instead to
just stay inside, drink the rest of his coee.
It was something she would have tried to draw, once upon a time. When she
used to draw.
It had started in sixth grade, the drawing, two years ago, before she got
serious about basketball. It was right after the museum visit. A class project. It
didn’t matter that they were all drawing just in spiral notebooks. Miss Pease,
who’s her aunt now, explained how, back when, ledgers were the spiral
notebooks of the day.
Denorah would never admit it no matter what, but she’d believed Miss Pease
that day. Sitting in the second row, she hadn’t even had to close her eyes to see
the picture of an old-time lodge, inside it all manner of things for sale: beaver
pelts, pipes, braids of sweetgrass, hunks of boiled bualo meat with browncolored ropy string through them (for hanging on pegs), pounded-at strips of
pemmican (yuck), beaded bags like at the trading post for tourists, where the
aps are big to show o the beadwork, and, way back in the corner, a stack of
blank ledgers. She knew she just had to put her nger on the fast-forward
button of that picture, keep it pressed until that lodge grew shoulders, squared
up into a building, a store, one with a school supplies aisle. Now the ledgers are
spiral notebooks, just like Miss Pease was saying.
It felt magical in class that day, opening her spiral up to that new blank page,
that modern-day ledger. She imagined it being in a museum, even pictured a
class of sixth-graders single-ling it up to the glass display case someday, to see
how the old ones used to do it, back when spiral notebooks were everywhere,
back in that handful of years when Indians only had reservations, before they
got all of America back.
The assignment was for class to draw their favorite holiday. It was supposed
to be Christmas or Thanksgiving or the powwow from the summer like
everybody else was doing, but what Denorah drew is from when her sister’s
team went to regionals in basketball the year before, the holiest day of all in her
family, even though they weren’t completely a family yet, since her mom and
new dad were only dating.
This is the day her big sister, Trace, who’s her new dad’s daughter he already
had, scored ten just in the rst quarter, then eight in the second, and came back
from halftime to go six for twelve, then in the fourth, when it was down to the
wire and the whole gym was stomping and screaming, when the other team had
gured out how to swing a double-team over to her if she so much as touched
the ball, she passed out of it every time, to whoever had to be free, and racked up
nine crushing assists in a single quarter. The other side was chanting, Indians go
home, Indians go home, but Trace was home, all of this was home, no place
more than a basketball court in the last thirty seconds.
What Denorah drew at the bottom right of the blue-lined page she’d
quartered up into panels that day in sixth grade, it was her sister at the end of
that game, the one free throw she had in the whole second half, a technical for
illegal defense, only the way Denorah drew her arms, it isn’t proper form at all.
Her big sister’s got her arms up and out like she’s holding a bow, like the ball
balancing in the cup of her outstretched st is an arrow, one she’s aiming up at
the whole world.
She rode that historical free throw, that game, that win, to a full-ride fouryear college scholarship down in Wyoming, and Denorah talks to her every
week on the phone, big sis to little one, no “step” between. When she was done
with her ledger art that day, when it got Miss Pease’s “B–” scrawled top-right
—“Is this really Indian, D? Shouldn’t you do something to honor your
[[p142]]heritage?”—she mailed it to Trace, careful to fold along the panel lines,
and Trace said Denorah got it just right, that’s just how it happened, thank you
thank you, Denorah should keep practicing, she’s better than any twelve-yearold has any right to be, she’ll tell her coach, she’ll make her listen, this is A-plus
work. A-plus plus.
It’s two years after that B minus, though.
Denorah hasn’t drawn probably since last summer. Not since her hands got
big enough to make a basketball look like it’s going one way when it’s really
going a completely dierent way.
She really is good. That’s not just something her sister tells her. Coach says it
after practice, to Denorah’s new dad, and when he’s home from his busy time in
a couple of months, he’s promised they’re going to go up to the gym every night
and run drills, work on her left-side attack—so long as she keeps her grades up.
Because they don’t just hand scholarships out.
New dad: “And why do you need to be sure to go to college?”
Same daughter: “Because you can’t eat basketballs when you grow up.”
Even though secretly she kind of thinks she can.
But still, she won’t get good enough to live on basketball if she doesn’t run
all those drills, and she doesn’t get to run those drills if she doesn’t maintain a
solid B average.
In the left-hand margin, Denorah pencils her grades in with the lightest
pencil. It’s her way of reminding herself that they’re not stable, that they can
change in an instant, with the least quiz:
Pre-Algebra: B–
Biology: C+
English: B+
Geography: A
Athletics: AAA+
Health: ?
So, health, once that six-week unit kicks in, can make all the dierence,
Denorah maths out. She draws three hearts by “Health” like hit points and
shades in the rst one, half of the second one. She pretends the red margin line
on the left side of the page is a pole and draws some dramatic shade coming
down from it. She thinks about how a good point guard holds the defender’s
eyes with her own, to keep that defender from watching the ball. She
remembers back when spiral notebooks were Big Chief tablets, and how she
used to think those came from Chief Mountain, and that her reservation was
the only reservation that got them. She tunes in to Mr. Massey, trying to defend
both the highway patrol and the Shelby vigilantes, trying to ip this turtle of a
discussion onto its back to see the real issues scratched on its belly, but there’s
nothing there Denorah hasn’t heard in her rst three classesalready, so she closes
her spiral notebook and holds it closed, looks out the window at the storage
trailer with the big dent in its side, from when a senior tried to push it over with
his dad’s truck and got expelled, joined up with the re crews, and burned up
before he even would have graduated.
But … what?
There’s a gure standing there in the ragged shade of that storage trailer. A
pair of eyes that blink once and resolve into a blank face so much like
Denorah’s, the long hair not braided, a bright white scrimmage jersey, gym
shorts, knee socks—My workout gear from the car? Denorah thinks, leaning
closer to the glass to see.
You look right back at her, your hair lifting all around your shoulders.
She doesn’t know you yet, no.
She will.
DEATH ROW
Gabriel Cross Guns, right before lunch.
While his daughter he hasn’t seen in going on two weeks is inching back in
her seat in geography, drawing her teacher’s attention, he’s raising a dusty rie
from the front closet of his dad’s living room and trying not to make a big
production of it.
The rie’s an old Mauser that his dad used to load with bird shot, so it could
be a real mouser. The baseboards of the living room are pitted and scored from
it, and there’s a crater near Gabe’s right eye that’s not acne, but a ricochet that
he was never sure if it was a pellet or salt or a shattered fragment of mouse bone
or splinter of wood or what, just that it stung and it was close enough to his eye
that he’d slapped at this sudden dab of pain without thinking, and probably just
succeeded in pushing it in deeper, meaning he’s got some salt or lead or some
baseboard or some rodent in his face. It’sa dot in his life he’salways touching. It
makes him feel like Cyclops from the X-Men, like he can place his nger to that
dot, that button, that release, and glare a ruby optic blast at whatever he wants,
blow it so deep into next week that nobody’ll ever catch up with it.
He hasn’t read comic books for years now, though, is only thinking about
them from a couple of weekends ago, from a smoky couch he was sitting on that
he’s pretty sure Ricky’s little brother died on back when—drowned, technically.
Gabe was sitting on the couch because he’d woke on it with his boots on, and
when he sat up he’d had to carefully extract his arm from deep between the
cushions, down where the lumpy-at mattress was folded over three times.
His hand had come up from that with a comic book, and he’d wondered if it
was worth anything at the pawnshops in Kalispell, and thinking about pawning
shit got him thinking about that old Mauser his dad always said he was going to
sell if he needed some quick cash. It’s supposed to be a historical gun, from
World War I or World War II, that he’d inherited from one of his uncles, who
got it on the actual battleeld.
Gabe wonders if shooting years of bird shot through the barrel at mice has
worn the riing down. To nd out, he jacks the breech open, holds the butt to
the light coming in through the front window, and looks down the barrel from
the front.
As if he can tell whether the riing’s worn down or if it’s at factory specs,
yeah. What was he thinking? It’s old anyway, right? Being wore down is what
an eighty- or whatever-year-old rie that’s maybe from an actual German in an
actual war is supposed to be, right? Anyway, the crispness of the riing won’t be
what sells this rie. What sells this rie will be this goofy forestock that tapers up
nearly to the end of the barrel and has what looks to be hand-carved checkering
scratched in.
Gabe shoulders the rie all at once, tracks an imaginary antelope bounding
from right to left.
“Lead it, lead it …” he says, left eye closed, right sighting, then comes to a
sudden stop on his dad’s bored-with-this face.
His dad palms the rie away, runs the bolt back to be sure there’s no live
round.
“Think I’m stupid?” Gabe says, turning sideways to get past his dad to the
refrigerator.
“You can’t have my uncle’s war trophy,” his dad says.
“Don’t want it, it’s too old,” Gabe says back, twisting the top o a stubby
bottle of V8. He doesn’t like the way it coats his mouth like cold spaghetti sauce
or the way it clumps down his throat like throw-up he’s having to swallow, isn’t
even that fond of the way it pools in his stomach and boils in his gut, but,
technically, it’s not food, and he’s supposed to be fasting today, for tonight’s
sweat. The rocks are already all heating up in the re. By dusk they’ll be
crawling with red heat, ready to shatter if the handler isn’t careful, and—Gabe
hasn’t told Cass this yet, and he probably won’t tell Victor Yellow Tail, who’s
laying down a cool hundred for the sweat—but these particular rocks, they’re
from a scattering of old tipi rings he found way back in Del Bonito in August.
Meaning they won’t be the rst Blackfeet to use them, ha. Maybe it’ll make
them better or hotter or someshit, right?
Anything helps.
It’s not the rst sweat he’s thrown, but it’s the rst one he’s thrown in honor
of a friend just gunned down the day before.
As to what Lewis had been doing to get himself shot, that’s the big mystery.
Going crazy from marrying a Custer-haired woman, Gabe gures but knows
better than to say out loud—yet. Give it a few months. Give it a few months
and that’ll be the joke going through the reservation.
The best jokes are the ones that have a kind of message to them. A warning.
This one’s warning would be to stay home. To not go postal.
It’s what Gabe thinks he’s maybe going to do right now, with his dad
following his every step like Gabe’s sixteen again, is only swinging by to thieve
anything not bolted down.
“For recycling,” his dad says, about the plastic bottle Gabe just banked into
the white trash can by the back door.
“Oh yeah,” Gabe says, casing the interior of the fridge some more, “Indians
use every part of the V8, don’t we?”
His dad grunts, settles the Mauser into the corner by the door, and canes
across the linoleum, reaches into the trash for the clear plastic bottle.
Gabe shuts the refrigerator in frustration.
“How long since you’ve even shot a mouse?” he says. “That rie’s just sitting
there. You know it.”
“What are you wearing that for?” his dad says back.
The black bandanna tied high on Gabe’s left arm, with the knot on the
outside because that makes it look more like a headband, just, on his arm.
Gabe stands to his full height, always feels more traditional when his back’s
straight like a ramrod—well, when it looks like he’s got a stick up his ass,
anyway.
“You heard about Lewis?” he says to his dad. “You remember him, Lewis?”
His dad lowers his face as if rattling the right tape into some slot in his head,
then comes up with an old-man smile, says, “Little Meriwether?”
“Still not funny,” Gabe drolls. “Highway patrol shot him yesterday, yeah?
Here, here, here,” making up the bullet holes as he goes.
He watches his dad for a icker of reaction but instead his dad says, “Didn’t
he die already once?”
“What? No. That’s … you’re thinking of Ricky, Dad. Ricky Boss?”
“Boss Ribs Richard,” his dad says, putting faces with names.
“Lewis was trying to come home at last,” Gabe says.
“For Thanksgiving moose?” his dad says with a smile.
Oh yeah: Turkey Day’s not even a week out, is it?
“Is everybody wearing those on their arms?” his dad asks, circling his own
left bicep with his hand.
“He was my friend, Dad. Cass is wearing it, too.”
“Just the two of you, then?”
“Lewis had been gone a long time already.”
Gabe’s dad looks out the kitchen window, at the wall of the house right
beside his, maybe. Who knows what old men look at?
“Do mice even come out in winter?” Gabe asks.
“It was my uncle Gerry’s rie,” his dad says back.
“He’s not coming back for it, Dad.”
“He used to shoot prairie dogs with it,” his dad goes on, a smile ghosting his
lips up. “But only the ones who were wearing those German helmets.”
Gabe has to spin away from this.
“His wife is dead, too,” Gabe says. “Lewis’s, I mean.”
“Field-dressed her,” his dad adds in.
So. The headlinesare even circulating over here on Death Row, then. Great.
Wonderful. Perfect.
“They don’t know what happened yet,” Gabe says.
“Meriwether …” his dad says then, casing the refrigerator himself now,
probably taking inventory for whatever Gabe might have palmed. “He was
selling that raccoon meat that one time, wasn’t he?”
“I don’t even know why I come over here,” Gabe says, brushing past his dad,
pushing through the front door he’d hung himself one many-beers day. It’s not
his fault it’s crooked, though. Whoever framed the doorway must not have had
a square. Or maybe it’s whoever poured the foundation’s fault. Or whoever
came up with the whole idea of “doors.”
He roars his truck to life and backs out without looking, nds the three
unbroken teeth in his transmission that still allow rst gear, and touches two
ngers to his eyebrow, saluting his dad bye, if he’s even watching.
Two houses later he pats the Mauser nosed down into the oorboard on the
passenger side. His dad didn’teven see him snag it when Gabe had brushed past.
In court-mandated substance-abuse counseling once—completely unnecessary,
but slightly better than ninety days in lockup—Neesh had explained to the ten
little Indians in group about counting coup. How that’s what all of them were
sort of already doing, did they know that?
Twenty bored eyes looked back at him.
Counting coup, he explained, using his ancient-old hands to form each
word, act out what he was saying, counting coup was running up to the baddest
enemy and just tapping them, then getting clear before that enemy could bash
you with anything.
That, he claimed all reverentially, was what each person there in group had
already done: rushed up to overdoses, to freezing while doped up, to crashing a
car because of impaired reexes, to vomiting in their sleep and drowning—
addictive behavior was the big-time enemy, couldn’t they see? And the fact that
they were all here meant they’d already ran up to it, had already counted coup
on it, and gotten away with their lives. The question now was whether they
would come back to the tribe proud of how close they’d got, or if they’d go back
again and again, until the enemy got its hook into them all the way, left them in
a ditch somewhere.
Gabe has always remembered that. “Counting coup.” It’s kind of what he
lives by, isn’t it? With wives and girlfriends, with jobs, with the law, with how
much gas is left in the tank, and now with this: he’d counted coup on his dad,
had actually been brushing right past him while his other hand snaked the rie,
swinging it forward with his left leg until the butt could catch on the steel toe of
Gabe’s boot, just like Denorah’s foot had back when he’d taught her cowboy
dancing.
But he knows better than to think about her.
Not because he doesn’t want to, but because he won’t stop, will have to go
out and nd something to stop his thinking. Either that or show up at Trina’s
front door again, apologizing, begging, asking her to give Den something from
him. Maybe just a bottle of Sprite with a chance to win under the cap.
At which point the lecture comes, about how he can’t keep showing up like
this, about how she’s at practice but don’t go back there, about how don’t call
her that, it’s Denorah, not Den, okay?
Better yet, don’t call her at all.
Gabe pats the rie, rolls it over so the hand-carved checkering won’t rub
away against the seat.
Snow swirlsacross the blacktop and, screw it, Trina can’t tell him what to do.
D’s his daughter, too, isn’t she?
Gabe hauls the steering wheel over, takes the turn that leads down to the
school. Just to drive by. She knows his truck. Everybody knows his truck. They
should invite him to drive it slow in the parade, let him rain candy out the
window.
On the way down to the school, though, his mind churning through who
mighteven have cartridges for a rie this old and weird, he seesa girl walking on
the opposite side of the street, away from school.
“D?” he says, letting his foot o the gas.
She’s wearing a scrimmage jersey and shorts, probably for the game
tomorrow, but has her hair down, like Denorah never wears it since she got all
serious about ball.
That can’t be her, can it?
Gabe coasts past and just glances over. In case it’s not her, the last thing he
needs is word getting out that Gabriel Cross Guns is creeping on the junior
high set.
Is it her, though? And, shouldn’t she be cold?
Right when he’s cranking his window down to see better, you raise your
face, level your eyes at him through your black hair blowing everywhere, and
this is the rst time you’ve seen him since that day, the air full of sound, your
nose breathing in just blood, your calf gasping inside you, your legs gone.
Don’t look away.
Make him be the one to break eye contact.
Listen to his truck accelerate away.
It doesn’t matter that he saw you now, either. The next time he lays eyes on
you, you’ll be taller, dierent, better. Already these stolen clothes are getting
tight.
SEES ELK
Cassidy is changing his name again.
From here on out, as long as it lasts, he’ll be Cashy, he thinks.
It’s payday in the Thinks Twice household. Or, the Thinks Twice camper,
anyway. Not that Thinks Twice is his born name either, it’s just what his auntie
Jaylene always called him like to remind him what to do, but, in his head
anyway, it kind of stuck.
In addition to his check, cashed and still in big bills, Gabe’s sliding him forty
just for rehabbing his old sweat and keeping the re stoked all day. In the old
days, which means up until last month, forty dollars extra would have pretty
much turned itself into a cooler of beer. Just, poof, Indian magic, don’t even
need any eagle feather fans or a hawk screeching, just look away long enough
for it to happen.
Since Jo, though, Cassidy is a new man. Gainfully employed—even more
legal once he takes the driving test—home by an hour after dark most nights, up
with the sun like there’s this big long string tied between him and it. Who’d have
thought a Crow would be the one who nally stepped in, saved his lame ass?
Never mind all the sage around the camper, all her smudging. There was
something bad following him, Cassidy nally had to admit, but it wasn’t
anything Indian. Or, well, it was pretty Indian, he guessed: a bench warrant.
But it wasn’t even for anything bad, was just an unpaid ticket, which can
happen to anybody.
Still, he can tell Jo’s waiting for the other shoe to drop. At the high school
basketball games he hauls her to so she can start knowing everybody, he can tell
she’s always looking around, watching for a ten- or fteen-year-old with pale
eyes like his, even though he guarantees her he never slipped any past the goalie,
that he would have heard all about it if he was owing anybody child support.
What he gures is that he’s shooting blanks, just like all the Indians when
they’re ghting John Wayne, and what he blames for that, or thanks, is uranium
in the water. Gabe and Ricky and Lewis had grown up down in Browning,
which, the water’s not perfect there, but you can usually drink it anyway.
Cassidy has been living on his dad’s place in East Glacier most of the time,
though, where the water’s cloudy with who knows what-all. It is kind of weird,
though, he’s always thought. Of him and Gabe and Ricky and Lewis, they’ve
altogether only had one kid? He gures Lewisand that blonde he’d run o with
might be waiting till the time was right like white people do, or maybe she
already had some before Lewis, didn’t want any more, but that Ricky never
threw any kids before he died—it’s not like he was ever careful, right? The only
one of them to leave a kid behind so far, though, it’s Gabe, and that was, shit,
what? Fourteen years ago already? It’s really been that long since him and
Trina? At least he did it right, though. Denorah Cross Guns can at-out ball.
She’s the one Jo’s always standing up for at the games and telling to shoot,
shoot, that this game is hers if she wants it.
She’s right, of course, the girl has Trina’s drive on the court, not Gabe’s
interest in what’s happening behind the gym, but still, the rst time Jo came up
out of her seat like that, not looking around for permission or to see if she was
the only one who could see the magic happening at the top of the key, Cassidy
knew she was going to be all right here. It’s so stupid, too: Jo was just a random
Crow girl he got to talking to at the powwow last summer—well, her and her
cousin, whatever her name was. They’d been doing a thing of standing up in
front of tourists’ cameras right when they were about to take the perfect shot of
the grand entrance, and they weren’t doing it to protect the Blackfeet or
anything, they were just doing it for the hell of it. Cassidy had liked that, had
scooted over to stand up with them, and then, before he even really knew it was
happening, he was driving down to her rez every other weekend, then every
weekend, then every day if he could get away. And then, after her big ght with
her mom, and after her cousin moved down south, taking away Jo’s couch,
Cassidy was coming back with Jo’s stu mounded in the bed of his truck, a
borrowed horse trailer dragging behind.
So it was all on accident, him and Jo, but at the same time it feels like it was
meant to be. It’s like he walked into the best thing ever, and all he was doing was
screwing around at the powwow. But maybe that’s the way it works when it’s
real?
Cassidy rolls the doubled-over pad of cash in his front pocket and considers
going into the camper to wake Jo just to be sure she’s there, that he isn’t just
dreaming all this, but … she works nights, isa stocker, the one and only Crow to
ever work at the new grocery so far—she needs her sleep, he knows. Instead he
goes to the camper of the old truck, where the dogs sleep. They won’t miss the
pile of sleeping bags and blankets and old jackets for one night, will they? For
one sweat?
Maybe he’ll buy them forty dollars of dog food.
Well, twenty.
He haulsan armful of the blankets outand down and drops them to the dirt,
ndsa corner here, an edge there, a sleeve poking out like it’s reaching up to get
saved. One by one Cassidy separates them all and shakes them out, then carries
them to the frame of the old sweat. The poles are still good, are from some kids’
tent he guesses, propped up with forks of tied rebar at the four points. Not four
for any bullshit Indian reason, but because, rst, the day Cassidy had put this
together, he’d only been able to scavenge eight pieces of rebar, two per prop, X’d
like he was doing, and, second, the tent frame was made to hold a kid’s tent, not
forty-odd pounds of dog bedding.
Too, it’s good that Gabe wants to do this in winter. In summer, because of
Cassidy’s great idea to dig the oor of the sweat down a foot and a half, it’s
sometimes soggy. Frozen like this, though, it’ll be perfect. Anyway, it’ll be good
to sweat the past year out. Reset, like. The old-time Indians had it right, Cassidy
gures.
At the frame he tightens all the shoestrings holding the poles and rebar
together, then shakes each blanket and sleeping bag and jacket out before
draping them across the white plastic skeleton of the sweat, saving his prison
brother’s old Army coat for the ap. The sleeping bag with the silvery insides
ashing in the sun spooks the horses and Cassidy notes this, reminds himself to
keep this one free, that maybe it’ll scare the magpies, too. Last summer they
stole threads from his favorite shirt when it was hanging on the line between the
camper and the pens. Somewhere back in the trees there wasa nest with colorful
accents, he gured, which was great and all, but not at the cost of his favorite
shirt. Now, to protect Jo’s clothes that he should probably be taking down so
they don’t smell like smoke, he’s got Christmas tinsel strung up all down the
wire. So far the magpies just think it’s pretty. They squawk their thanks to him
for dressing the place up, keeping things interesting.
When the sweat’s together—it looks like an igloo made from homeless dudes
—Cassidy goes to the tack shed, roots around, comes back with a mallet and
enough junky tent stakes to be sure no aps blow open tonight except the door
ap. But the door ap is a greasy old BDU jacket with a rock in its pocket to
keep it down, so that should be good.
Next, what should have been rst: sweeping out the oor. If he’d done it
before, he could have used a normal broom. Now he has to use the broken-o
head of a broom, and a tray like from a cafeteria. Zero clue where that’s from,
but it works.
Slapping the tray on the side of the pen spooks the horses again, too.
“What’s with y’all fraidy-cats today?” Cassidy says to them.
The paint whinnies back, stomps her front hoof like trying to pull the
ground between them closer, and Cassidy ducks back into the lodge for one last
sweeping. A little extra dirt doesn’t matter to him, but it’s the Yellow Tail kid’s
rst sweat, so he’s probably going to have his face right down by the ground,
just trying to breathe. Heat rises, kid. Way it is. Sorry. Maybe this’ll clean him
right up, though. It’s a dierent kind of getting baked, right?
“Here all night,” Cassidy calls out to the horses and the dogs, and parade
waves to them all. The paint swishes her shampoo-commercial tail back at him.
The dogs are pretending to be guarding some other camper, it looks like. One
they’d be more proud to be associated with.
Cassidy turns around to take his world in. For miles around there’s just
yellow grass and crusty snow and, in the folds of the hill where seeds can blow
and water can ow, clumps of trees. The only thing keeping this from being
1800 or all the centuries before are the utility poles hitching the power cable out
to the camper. Well, he supposes the camper’s not very pre–white people, either.
Or the horses.
He’s always kind of wondered about the dogs, though. Back when, dogs
would sometimes pull little travois, wouldn’t they? He’s pretty sure he’s seen
drawings. But, wouldn’t those dogs have pretty much just been domesticated
wolves? At the same time, though, all the dogs living on the streets in town,
they may have started out as Saint Bernards or Labradors or Rotts or whatever,
but, to grit out the winter, to ght it out over every scrap, they bush their coats
up, they bare their teeth rst thing, and their ears aren’t as oppy as whatever
line of lapdog Frisbee-catchers they come from. It’s like, living like they do, it’s
turning them back into wolves.
Case in point: Cassidy’s three women, each faster to snap at your hand than
the other. The black one with the blaze, Ladybear, is the mom of the two others.
There used to be a boy dog he called Stout, because he was, but the problem
with the males is that they’re never content to hang around the camper. Stout
went out on self-imposed patrol one day, which Cassidy gured was really just
looking for women in heat or something to ght, and he must have found one
or the other, because the next time Cassidy saw him was when him and Jo were
trotting the horsesa couple miles o, just killing the afternoon. Stout wasa mat
of ratty hair and a few bones.
“Always wondered where he got o to,” Jo’d said, her paint dancing and
spinning under her.
“Not far,” Cassidy said.
That was probably only a couple of months after she’d moved in, when he
was still trying to prove to her that he was a Real Indian. Exhibit one: I ride my
own horses on the same land my ancestors did.
Whatever. It had worked, Cassidy supposes. Never mind she was twice the
rider he was, and probably three times the Indian.
Not that she could come into the sweat tonight. If it was just him and her,
sure, always, forever, please. Gabe had read in one of his books that women and
men didn’t mix in the sweats, though, and anyway: the kid. Cassidy still
remembers his own rst sweat. It was bad enough sitting in all that dark heat
with a bunch of naked uncles. Add a woman into that mix—especially one like
Jo: two unfair inches taller than Cassidy, curvy, solid, long black hair—and it
wouldn’t have been ceremonial anymore, it would have been about how, Look,
I’m tough, this heat isn’t anything, I can take it longer than any of these oldtimers.
He probably never would have sung, either, if there’d been a woman there.
Yeah, sweats shouldn’t be like the bar, he gures.
But now that it was built, they could heat up the rocks whenever they
wanted, get clean, screw whatever book Gabe had. What, were the Indian police
going to thunder down from the sky on lightning bolts, write Cassidy up for
letting a woman into the sacred sweat lodge?
If they did, he’d ask them about their dogs, maybe. And also what they did
for water for the sweat, back in the pre-bucket days.
In town, Cassidy could just run a hose over, snake it under a blanket, spray
the rocks when they needed more steam. This far from town, though, all high
and lonely, water was in the ve-hundred-gallon tank behind the pens, and cost
a tank of gas to drag all the way here.
What did the old Indians use?
Probably they built their sweat lodges by creeks, Cassidy gures, or where the
snow was melting downhill. His solution is … that old green and white cooler
that doesn’t have a lid anymore, that he’s been using for the dogs to drink from.
“Sorry,” he says to them, tumping it over.
Miss Lefty bats her tail once against the dirt in response. Her name is Miss
Lefty because that’s a funny name for a dog.
Cassidy scoops the cooler into the tall snow living in the shade behind the
horses’ lean-to. Their ears are all directed right at him.
After working the cooler into the sweat, all that’s left is a shovel for Victor,
tonight’s designated rock handler. Cassidy jogs around back of the camper, not
sure where he last saw the shovel but sure he can’t use the wide at one they
muck out the stalls with. He’s not a hundred percent on board with keeping
every part of a ritual intact, but he is against the shitty end of that shovel being
anywhere near him.
Jo’s around back of the camper, it turns out, wetting the air needle with her
lips to push it into the basketball, shoota few thousand on the little court maybe
a camper’s length past the outhouse. Really it’s just the foundation left over
from a house that used to be here, that blew away. All Cass had to do was grind
down all the water pipes level with the concrete and screw an old backboard to
the utility pole the tribe left behind, that he spent a whole day digging the hole
for, and another day getting to stand up straight.
Jo’s sitting on the little weight bench Cassidy liberated from one of his kid
cousins, her foot stepping on the bicycle pump’s base to keep it from tipping
over into the dirt.
She jabs the needle in, tries to hold the ball between her knees while she
works the air pump’s squeaky plunger. Cassidy wants to step over, help with
either the ball or the pump, but one thing about Jo is that she’ll either do it
herself or she’ll go down trying.
“Couldn’t sleep,” she says, checking the pressure.
“Who needs sleep when there’s basketball?” Cassidy says.
“Macaroni’s cooking,” Jo says, tilting her head inside.
“Hot dogs?” Cassidy asks.
“Once you cut them in,” she says back, then, about the lodge: “Who for?”
“Lewis,” Cassidy says. “You know—that guy. One I grew up with, got
himself shot yesterday?”
“That how y’all do it up here, throw a sweat? This a Blackfeet wake or
something?”
“Just a remembering. It was Gabe’s idea.”
“Gabe,” Jo says, at as it’s possible to say a name.
“Also there’s this kid,” Cassidy adds.
Jo nods, meaning he doesn’t need to take her through itagain: Victor Yellow
Tail’s kid needing something traditional to maybe ground him, keep him from
burning out on dope and 90 proof.
“Almost forgot,” Cassidy says, “payday,” pulling the cash up from his pocket
enough to show some thick green.
“My man.”
Soon enough Jo’s involved trying to grease the bicycle pump’s plunger, so
Cassidy steps into the camper to cut hot dogs into the macaroni, cube some
Velveeta in—smaller the better, so they’ll melt. He walks a bowl out to her,
spoon already in, the cheese thick enough that the spoon isn’t even tapping into
the side of the bowl.
“Needs ketchup,” she says after her rst bite.
They’re sitting by the re now, away from the smoke.
The dogs still haven’t moved, know this lunch isn’t for them. The horses are
lined up against the fence, their jaws on the top rail, tails swishing like cats.
“We should run them guys tomorrow,” Cassidy says about her paint and the
sorrel. The mouse-colored gelding isn’t broke enough yet, maybe never will be.
Jo looks over, waits until Cassidy’s chewing a big bite before saying, “Aren’t
you not eating today or something?”
Cassidy chews, swallows, says like a question, “I did skip breakfast, yeah?”
“You never eat breakfast.”
“But especially not today.”
Jo shakes her head, spoonsanother bite in, says, “Where you gonna stash that
drug-dealer roll?”
“The safe, I gure,” Cassidy says, and as one they look over at the truck he
dragged up a few months ago. It wasn’t stealing, he assured Jo, it wasn’t even
salvaging—it was his truck. Just, he’d walked away from it for a few years. But it
had been a good pony once upon a time, deserved to rust into the ground close
to people instead of out by itself.
The safe he’s talking about is a powder-black thermos he’s got shoved up
inside a rotted-out glasspack up under the truck, rotted out because when he’d
pulled the engine forever ago, he’d left the headers mouth-up to all the rain and
snow the sky could funnel down into them. The result is an exhaust system no
one would ever try to spirit away, as it would crumble in their hands. Besides,
anything worth stealing o that truck, making it work on some other truck, it
was taken years ago.
And, an actual safe, tucked under the bed in the camper, or in a high
cabinet, or hidden in some clever cutout? That would be exactly what anybody
breaking in would key on, carry o to crack open in their buddy’s shop. It’s not
like him and Jo can be at the trailer every hour of the day, and, way out and
lonely like they are, the dogs and horses are no way keeping anybody from
taking a pry bar to the imsy door.
But no one would ever look in a trashy old glasspack barely hanging on
under a truck with no engine, no wheels, only one vent window, its four drums
up on cinder blocks. Already there’s six hundred dollars in that thermos in large
bills, and, smushed way down at the bottom under that green, a little medicine
pouch with a secret ring in it, for Jo.
She struggles another apparently too-dry bite down and hands her bowl to
Cassidy, says, “I’m gonna teach you good taste if it takes forever,” and steps
inside for the ketchup.
Forever, Cassidy repeats, liking that, spooning another bite in. It’s not that
dry.
The paintat the fence shakes her head from too many horse thoughts rattling
around in there and Cassidy shakes his head just the same, trying to geta rise out
of her. She’s smart enough it works sometimes.
Not this time.
She’s looking past Cassidy.
He turns, stands slow, dropping his bowl and Jo’s both.
“Holy shit,” he says, having to move side to side to stay standing, from the
dogs rushing this spilled lunch.
He doesn’t care about it anymore.
Spread out behind him, just down the slope from the camper, are probably
eighty, ninety elk. Maybe a hundred.
They’re all looking right back at him, not a single tail icking, not one eye
blinking.
Cassidy swallows hard, wishing more than anything for his rie.
The name he was born with wasn’t Cassidy Thinks Twice, even though
that’s what he’s doing now—Where’s my gun, where’s my gun?—but Cassidy
Sees Elk.
Names are stupid, though.
Pretty soon he won’t even need his.
FOUR THE OLD WAY
Standing up at Ricky’s grave behind the old lodge, sharing an after-lunch beer
with him, tipping a bit out for Cheeto, too, what the hell, it’s not giving alcohol
to minors if the minor’s in the ground, Gabe is still thinking about the
basketball girl he saw not wearing a jacket, walking in the snow by the school.
What he’s talked himself into is that it couldn’t have been Denorah. Den’s
tight-laced like her mom, wouldn’t be walking around with her hair just ying
around her head like some Indian demon. And it had been school hours
anyway, right? One rule about sports that Gabe’s pretty sure still holds, it’s that
truancies mean you can’t play. A one-for-one kind of system, each truancy
keeping you on the bench for a game, even though there’s so many more school
days than there are games. It’s what Gabe blames for never being the basketball
star he’s sure he could have been.
He shakes his head no again, that it couldn’t have been her. That he’s not a
bad dad for not having stopped to get her warm, hike her up to wherever she
was going. Just, what that means, he supposes, it’s that she was some other
baller, out in shorts in the cold. Meaning he’s just not a good Indian.
But bullshit to that, too.
Gabe cashes his beer and hooks the neck of the bottle into one of the chickenwire squares of the Boss Ribs family fence.
What if Den’s having some big war with Trina, though, right? They are alike,
Denorah’s like a little clone of the girl Gabe knocked up fourteen years ago—
fteen, really—but that little clone, she’s got some Cross Guns in her veins, too.
What this means, Gabe knows, it’s that she’s going to reach an age where she’ll
want to take the world in her teeth and shake until she tears a hunk of
something o for herself. And then, whether it’s good or bad, whether it’s a
scholarship or a ve-year bid in state or two kids in as many years, she’ll sit in the
corner by herself and chew it down, dare anybody to say this isn’t exactly what
she wanted.
She’s going to be like him, he knows. She’s got that in her. She didn’t get that
smile of hers from Trina, anyway. Gabe’s seen it when she plays, in spite of the
restraining order. The order’s not about staying ve hundred feet away from
Denorah, or even from Trina, though he kind of self-imposes that one for
purposes of self-preservation, it’s about not coming to any more home
basketball games. Because of boisterousness, which is just cheering. Because of
ghting, which wasn’t his fault. Because of public intoxication, which was only
that one time.
With the right jacket and hat and sunglasses, though, he can still slip in with
the visitors, so long as he doesn’t draw attention to himself. He’s pretty sure
Victor, the tribal cop slipping him cash for the sweat tonight, has seen him over
there all incognito, but Gabe keeps his hands in his pockets and he doesn’t
explode up out of his seat each time Denorah pulls a no-call, so Victor lets this
sleeping dog lie.
It’s not easy being quiet, though.
Denorah is a special player, that once-in-a-generation kind. Yeah, he’s her
dad, but everybody else says it, too, even that newspaper guy. She’s got
everything her big stepsister had, but Trace, she does it at college with all the
basics she’s had drilled in, which, as far as Gabe can tell, has pretty much
stamped all the Indian out, left it on the practice gym oor.
Den’s got those basics down pat, can walk that line in practice day after day
just like her coach wants. When the game’s down to it, though, when the
bualo chips are down, as Cass used to say when he was still just Cass, when two
defenders are ganged up on this little Indian girl straight out of Browning,
that’s when she’ll smile a smile that Gabe has to smile with her.
It’s that hell-for-leather look, that come-at-me look, that let’s-do-this look.
Instead of passing out of a double-team like she’s been told to, what Den’ll
do is back o these two defenders, look from one to the other, and then get her
dribble and her feet just out of sync enough to throw them o balance, giving
her room to split them.
Second game of the season, she even threw the ball between a tall girl’s legs
and caught it before the second bounce, cut for the basket straight as any arrow
ever let loose.
That was the game they had to escort Gabe out, disinvite him from the rest
of the season. The reason he got kicked out was because her coach had benched
her for showing o. For being Blackfeet. It was like—it was like what Gabe had
read about in that one book. Those two Cheyenne from the old days who got
caught by the cavalry, sentenced to death, but asked if they could die like they
wanted.
Sure, the stupid Custers said.
The way those two Cheyenne wanted, it was to die on their horses, with all
those soldiers shooting at them as they ran past.
Only, they did it once, and made it through all the bullets.
And then again.
Finally they had to walk slow, give those plowboy soldiers a chance.
That’s what Coach had done to Den: made her slow down, when she was
faster than any of them, ercer than them all.
Gabe gures he should maybe slip through town on the way to Cass’s, look
D up, make sure everything’s good, be sure that wasn’t her out walking in the
cold.
It’s the day before their rst scrimmage, isn’t it? There’s really one place
she’ll be.
“She’s good, man,” he says down to Ricky, cracking the top o a second
beer, killing this one all at once, like old times.
He hooks it into the fence alongside the rst one. They look like two bottles
in the side of a hamster cage. One for him, one for Ricky.
Gabe opens a third, considers it, the white chill swirling up from that brown
neck.
“So ask Lewis what the hell, if you see his ass,” he says to Ricky, tipping the
rst swig out for him, for them, for all the dead Indians. But for Lewis rst.
He wasn’t the best of them, was maybe the stupidest of them, really, always
with his nose in a book, but that didn’t mean the staties needed to pop him like
that.
But—Gabe squints his face up, tracks a cloud scudding along the treetops,
the sky grey and forever behind it—but why would Lewis have been carrying a
dead little elk around with him? At rst Gabe knew he had to have heard it
wrong, but then the paper conrmed it: when the truck Lewis’s body had been
in back of had wrecked, there’d for sure been an elk calf thrown in there beside
him, because he’d been carrying it, and it might be some Indian evidence, or
evidence of Indians, who knew.
Just, when the emergency responders piled onto the scene of the accident,
they were interested in dead people, not dead animals that had probably been in
the ditch already, as far as they knew. By the time they realized it was evidence,
had come back for the calf, the coyotes had probably dragged it o, made
themselves a ne meal.
Good for them.
It doesn’t explain what Lewis had been doing with the calf in the rst place,
though.
The only thing Gabe has to sort of explain it is how sentimental or whatever
Lewis had got over that skinny elk, that day they’d jumped that herd out in the
elder section.
Lewis had known they were just sawing haunches o and running, but he’d
insisted on taking all of her, even her head, which he’d just have to throw away
in town anyway, right? He’d skinned her too, hadn’t he, and carried that rolledup wet hide under his arm like a football, like he was some Jim Thorpe
wannabe? Like this really was some bullshit Thanksgiving Classic? Gabe nods,
can see it again, Lewis struggling up that long hill, all the odds against him.
What he told them was that he needed her head because he wanted her
brains, to tan that hide with. Like he knew anything about leather. Like that
hide hadn’t been thrown out years ago, like every other hide any of them had
ever saved. Like she’d even had all her brains in her head at that point.
Good job, Lewis.
Gabe tips beer number three up to him and drinks it down, hooks it in the
fence in line with the others. One bottle for Ricky, one for Lewis, and one for
himself. They chime against each other once, then still.
He shakes another one up from the little cooler, for Cass, even though he’s
seeing Cass in a few, here. Four’s too many for three-thirty in the afternoon, on
zero food, but screw it. He’ll sweat it all out come nightfall, and then some.
Was that what Lewis had actually been smuggling home, that old hide? Had
Lewis made it down to the city with it, kept it frozen all this time, and had he
been trying to bring it back to the reservation now? Did the cops just not know
the dierence between a thawed-out, ten-year-old skin and an elk calf? Had they
shot him enough times that it was all guesswork?
But why?
Was Lewis going to hand-deliver it to Denny at the Game Oce, say he’d
done his penance, could he please please hunt on the reservation again?
You don’t have to ask, though, Gabe tells Lewis. You just have to not get
caught.
The last ten years of his ban, which he guesses is short for banishment, he’s
taken probably twice again as many elk as they popped that day. Well, enough
that when he was stashing some of the meat in his dad’s freezer in the garage a
few months ago—it was that little one-horn that had still been in velvet—he’d
had to make room by cleaning all the old stu frozen to the walls of that freezer.
The reservation dogs had eaten well that night.
Gabe had watched them until they were done, paper and all, and then
nodded once to them because they owed him now, didn’t they?
They knew. They would remember.
“Tell me when trouble’s coming for me,” he’d said to them. “You’ll know.”
And then he’d laughed. Like now.
Gabe has to wait until he can wipe his smile away to drink the top o the
fourth beer. He checks the time.
He’s just waiting until he’s sure where Denorah’ll be. Who he’ll call Den if
he wants, and D if she’s on defense, Killer if she’s not.
He hooks the bottle in the fence alongside the others, just like it’s the old
days, the four of them always together, and leaves a drink sloshing in it for the
dead Indian hamsters. Halfway to the truck he turns back to the grave, undoes
the black bandanna from his arm, and ties it into the fence as well, like a prayer
he doesn’t know how to say with words. It’s about Lewis, though. And Ricky.
And how they all used to be.
Easing back down the logging road in rst, just riding the transmission, he
crunches the clutch and brake in, leans over the dash to be sure he’s seeing what
he’s seeing.
He has to set the parking brake, get out to be sure.
Elk tracks in the snow. A big cow, just walking up the road like following
him up to see Ricky, but a heavy cow, too. Gabe points his trigger nger down
into the hoofprint and wonders if it’s a small horse with elk feet, carrying a
rider.
He stands, looks ahead for anything this ridiculous, but the road hooks back
to the right almost immediately.
Still. This is a good sign, isn’t it? Strong medicine, like Neesh used to say?
The sweat’s going to be good for the kid tonight. It’s going to be good for all of
them.
Gabe climbs back into the truck, eases down the two-track, has his eyes on
the road enough that he doesn’t catch the ash of black in the rearview mirror
when a full-grown woman in a too-tight scrimmage jersey steps out of the trees,
into the bed of the truck, her long black hair swirling in after her.
It’s where hunters carry the animals they shoot, isn’t it? It’s where they put
you, ten yearsago. Don’t smile too much about this, just work your way under
the toolbox.
The night is almost here. It’s the one you’ve been waiting for.
OLD INDIAN TRICKS
It’s about form, yes, Coach is right about that, everybody knows that, but what
Denorah’s big sister taught her, forwarding and rewinding through hours of
tape, is that it’s also about using the exact same form every single time you step
up to the stripe.
And that form, that ritual, it’s not just the second and a half or two seconds
of your free throw, either.
It starts with how you toe up to the line. For Denorah it’s right foot rst,
right up to the paint, then backing o about a shoelace width because the point
will get erased if your feet are illegal. If you’re a good shooter that’s not the end
of anything, as you usually get a do-over in junior high, but if you missed and
one of your tall girls hauled the rebound down, has position to slip it back in for
an easy two, then, well, then you’ve screwed things up, haven’t you?
So, out at the pad of concrete at the back of her family’s two acresat the edge
of town, where her new dad’s rigged up some oodlights for summer, where
she had to measure out and paint the charity stripe herself, Denorah shoots and
shoots and shoots, never mind that she can see her breath in the cold.
Eighty-six out of one hundred, then seventy-nine, which gets her breathing
hard and mad, then an even ninety.
Because the scrimmage this week is Saturday night—tomorrow night—and
there’s no practice the day before a game so everyone can have fresh legs and be
mentally prepared, today is for free throws.
They’ve never been Denorah’s weak point, but she’s also never had a game
where she swished every one. So there’s room for improvement. Like with
Trace, her whole future might come to rest on making one point the easy way,
with the whole gym thundering and crumbling around her, the oor beneath
her shoes trembling, sweat pouring into her eyes.
Coach never has them do free throwsat the front of practice, but the back, so
they’ll know what it’s like to make themselves have good form when they’re
exhausted, just want to ing the ball up there, say a prayer after it.
But Denorah needs fresh legs for tomorrow, so she’s compensating by trying
to get a cool ve hundred shots in before dark. Or to get ve hundred either
way, whether she gets to slope down to the house for dinner or ends up
shooting right through it again.
Toe up to the line with the right foot, back o a touch for safety, then work
the left up until it’s dead even with the right. Spin the ball back with the lines
going from thumb to thumb and dribble twice, fast and hard with the right
hand, using the whole shoulder, elbow straightening out each time. Catch it,
look up to the rim, bend the knees, back straight, ass out, and push up with the
front of the thighs, extend with the right arm, left hand just there to keep the
rock steady, the calves pushing right at the end, when the middle nger of that
right hand is gripping on to the rubber of the valve hole, imparting the perfect
spin.
Swish, swish, swish.
The machine girl is on automatic, she’s locked and loaded, doesn’teven need
to concentrate anymore. Fouling her in the act of shooting is the same as
putting a pair of points up on the scoreboard for her team.
“Bring it,” Denorah says, lining up again.
The only thing she regrets about basketball, that baseball and football and
even golf have over it, it’s that those playersall get to wear war paint under their
eyes.
What Coach tells them in the locker room before every game, it’s that their
war paint is on the inside of their faces, it’s in how they hold their faces, it’s in
how they look the other girls in the eye and don’t look away. Dribbling and
passing and shooting are just the parts of the game that get recorded in the stats.
There’s also who wants it worse.
To steel herself against the kind of bullshit Indian teams always get hurled at
them when the game’s close, Denorah tries to inoculate herself with all the
bullshit that the other side of the gym will be chanting.
It’s a good day to die.
I will fight no more forever.
The only good Indian is a dead Indian.
Kill the Indian, save the man.
Bury the hatchet.
Off the reservation.
Indian go home.
No Indians or dogs allowed.
Her sister heard them all in her day, perverted on spirit ribbons, usually
illustrated, too. Shoe-polished on the windows of buses, the big one was always,
Massacre the Indians!
Bring it, Denorah says in her head, and dropsanother through the net. If the
only good Indian is a dead one, then she’s going to be the worst Indian ever.
Her promise to herself for tomorrow, win or lose, is to be back out here
again right after the game, working on any shot she should have made but
didn’t.
They don’t just give those scholarships away.
Denorah shags the rebound, jogs back to the line without stopping to spin,
bank one in from the block. From what would be the block if she’d measured
that out too, painted it.
Her dream is to somehow extend this pad of concrete, so there can be a
three-point line.
Someday.
Not today.
Today it’s just free throws.
Swish, swish, a sound in the grass behind her but she can’t look, it’s probably
just Mom, home early from work, and … rattle, bounce, clunk.
Denorah starts to spin around to whoever made her miss but reminds herself
at the last moment that she made herself miss, that she let her concentration ag,
that she didn’t follow through on the ritual.
“Hey, Finals Girl,” an unhilarious male voice calls out from behind her,
moments after a truck engine’s been turned o.
Finals Girl.
It’s what her real dad calls her when she’s on the court, ever since she was his
lucky charm when she was four and he was watching her in June, during the
NBA nals.
She looks back with just her head.
He’s sitting in his truck, window down, one arm patting the side of the door
like it’s a horse he’s riding, not a pickup he’s picked back through the grass with.
“The septic’s there,” Denorah says, nodding to the greasy grass by the
scattered pipes he must have just driven on one side of or the other.
“That’s why I got four-wheel drive,” her dad says, pushing the shifter up into
place. “The slop.”
He’s been drinking. She can tell from his eyes. They’re loose in his head, too
happy for this early in an afternoon.
“Just wanted to wish you luck for tomorrow,” he says.
Denorah looks around for the ball, walks a beeline across to it.
“You’re not supposed to be here,” she says, and he’s already cutting her o by
rolling his hand, saying, “Your new and important dad doesn’t think I’m a good
inuence, blah blah blah …”
Denorah toes up to the stripe, brings the left foot even, her back to him.
He won’t get out of his truck. Not when he might be needing to make a
hasty exit.
“You’re going to kill them tomorrow night,” he says. “We’re doing a sweat
tonight, to, you know. Like, help the team.”
His talking is good, Denorah’s telling herself. He’s like a whole crowd
chanting, Indians go home.
Just noise.
Swish.
“That’s the ticket,” he says, patting his door again in token applause.
“You and who’s doing this sweat?” Denorah asks, chancing a look back to
him while snabbing the ball from the tall grass.
“Cass,” her dad says, then, “you want to keep a song in your head when
you’re shooting free throws, and always let go on the same beat. Old Indian
trick.”
It makes Denorah do two extra dribbles, trying to keep music from playing
in her ears.
Clunk.
“It’s okay, it’s okay,” her dad says.
Rebound, reset.
Was that nineteen out of twenty or nineteen out of twenty-one? Shit.
Twenty-one, then. Losing count never counts in favor of.
“I think it’s Cassidy now,” Denorah says, just because.
“Little Miss Cross Guns,” her dad says back, which is what he calls her when
she sounds like her mom to him.
“I see his new snag at Glacier Family Foods sometimes,” Denorah says, saying
the store’s whole name because she likes the way it sounds.
“What do you know about snagging?” her dad asks, not patting his truck
now.
“She’s in produce now,” Denorah says, a grin he can’t see warming her lips.
Swish.
“Probably a vegetarian, yeah?” her dad says with a smile in his voice, and that
tells Denorah all she needs to know about how much Jolene the Crow
appreciates her dad coming out to do sweats with her man.
“Didn’t know he had a lodge out there,” Denorah says.
Dribble, dribble, nd the valve hole by touch. Right when she rocks back to
shoot, her dad touches his horn. Still: swish.
“Good, good,” he calls out.
Returning to the line for number twenty-three, she seesa black hank of your
hair breeze up from the bed of the truck and it stops her for a moment, the ball
held at her stomach.
Her dad sees, leans out to look back, says, “What?”
“You’re not supposed to be hunting,” Denorah says, no joke to her voice
about this of all things.
“What, you an ocially deputized game warden now?” he says, settling back
behind the wheel, leaning over to get at something from the oorboard.
Whatever he gets doesn’t raise above the level of the door, but Denorah’s
pretty sure it’s cold and beer-shaped.
And? Maybe he’s not even lying.
Elk and deer don’t have manes. Maybe he’s a horse hunter now, she thinks,
and has to turn around to the rim so he won’t see the smile in her eyes. Just
because she can’t see him doesn’t mean she can’t hear a beer cracking open.
Noise, noise. The whole gym going wild.
“This the same sweat Nathan Yellow Tail’s dad’s making him go to?” she says.
Rattle, rattle, lucky roll.
“We’re letting him in, yeah,” her dad says like a challenge. Like she should try
to call him on his kindness, his manners, on who this sweat is actually for,
Nathan or the scrimmage.
“Coach says she sees you at the games,” Denorah says, walking to the tall
grass for the ball.
No answer.
She looks back to him.
“You look more like your mom every day,” her dad says.
Trina Trigo, the grass dancer champion from high school, was even on a
powwow calendar from back then. Except Denorah isn’t sure if this is a
compliment or if she only looks like her mom when she’s saying stu her dad
doesn’t want to hear.
Line up, draw a bead on those eighteen inches of circular orange up there.
Remember that the higher you arc the ball, the more circular that rim gets.
The ball is a touch over nine inches wide. That leaves all kinds of room to
play with. All kinds of lucky bounces.
But proper form is where it all starts. More you practice, the luckier you end
up.
The ritual, the ceremony.
Dribble-dribble, thighs, extend, spin with the valve hole, hold that followthrough, hold it, hold it …
Swish.
Denorah smiles, is the deadliest Indian on the whole reservation.
“Do it again, it’s worth twenty,” her dad says behind her, low like an
invitation he doesn’t want just everyone tuning in to.
She turns back to him and he’s pushed up against the back of the seat to dig
in his front pocket. At least until whatever it is that’s cold and beer-shaped and
chocked between his legs spills forward.
“You’ve got twenty?” Denorah says back to him.
“I will tonight,” her dad says. “When Ocer Yellow Tail pays me.”
“So it’s like that,” she says.
“Gratuity,” her dad says. “He’s very gracious.”
“Double it if I go ten for ten,” Denorah says.
Her dad raises his eyebrows, says, “You are my Finals Girl, aren’t you?”
She smiles her smile that she knows is his, that she can’t do anything about,
and dribbles twice, banks it in just for show.
“Somebody give the little lady some dice,” her dad says.
It’s not luck, though. It’s skill. It’s practice. It’s proper form.
“That’s one,” Denorah says, and turns her back on her dad again, imagines a
gym all around her, wall-to-wall white people, all chanting for her to go home,
go home.
She spins the ball toward her, dribbles twice, and lines up.
THE SUN CAME DOWN
Cassidy stands from his lawn chair to watch Gabe rattle over the cattle guard.
The dogs, tongues hanging long from chasing that herd of elk o, swarm his
truck before he’s even got the door open, maybe thinking he’s bringing those
elk back, that he has them all in the bed of his truck.
Dogs are stupid.
“Ho, ho!” Cassidy calls out to them, slapping his thigh.
Gabe kicks his door open to scatter them but they just keep bawling their
fool heads o. He wades out holding a rie above his head like that’s what the
dogs are after.
“Don’t you feed them?” he asks above the din.
“They like red meat,” Cassidy calls back, making his way over.
“They’re scratching the other scratches, man,” Gabe says, pushing in
between the dogs and the bed of his truck.
“What you got back there?” Cassidy asks.
“Not dog food,” Gabe says back. “Unless—they eating spare tires now?”
Before Cassidy can get close enough, Ladybear nips at Gabe’s left hand. In
response Gabe pops the forestock down across the bridge of her nose. Then he
steps into her space, driving her back, his lips thin like this could get serious.
Ladybear whimpers, backs o, the other two following.
“Shit,” he says, shaking his hand, opening his door back up to see it with the
dome light.
Cassidy leans over to see. Gabe’s bleeding from the meat of his left palm.
Two neat, welling punctures.
“Got rabies now,” Gabe says, wiping the blood onto the saddleblanket seat
cover. “What, they on JoJo’s side now? She even got the dogs turned against my
ass?”
“Watch out for the horses is all I’m saying,” Cassidy says, and returns to the
lawn chair. The re’s down to coals mostly.
Gabe steps in, hunkers down into the other chair still holding his hand,
settles the rie across the top of his legs.
“Those rocks working out?” he asks.
“They’re rocks,” Cassidy says.
“Got water for the sweat?” Gabe asks.
“In there,” Cassidy says, pointing to the lodge with his chin. “Got the
money?”
“About that,” Gabe says.
Cassidy chuckles and shakes his head, turns the bottle of water up and drains
as much as he can without drowning. He’s not thirsty, but he will be.
“She here?” Gabe asks, tilting his head over at the camper, its windows dark
in the gathering dusk.
“Work.”
“I’ve never done one at night,” Gabe says then, leaning back in Jo’s chair, the
chair not quite bending. Yet.
“A sweat?” Cassidy says.
“There’s nothing, like, against doing it at night, is there?” Gabe asks.
“Let me check the big Indian rule book,” Cassidy says. “Oh yeah. You can’t
do anything, according to it. You’ve got to do everything just like it’s been done
for two hundred years.”
“Two thousand.”
They laugh together.
Cassidy shes a dripping bottle of water up from the cooler and spirals it
across the re to Gabe. The droplets spinning o it hissagainst the embers, send
up tiny geysers of steam.
“So what do you know about this kid?” Cassidy says.
“Nate Yellow Tail? You know. Twenty years ago, he’s you and me. He’s
Ricky and Lewis.”
“Half of us are dead, yeah?”
“Either that or one of us here is already half dead,” Gabe says, and slings a
dollop of water across the heat at Cassidy, to show this isn’t completely serious.
That it is, but he wants to get away with having said it.
“Maybe it’ll be good for him, I mean,” Cassidy says. “Help him out, like.”
“Arrows are straight, but they have to bend, too,” Gabe says, his voice dialed
down to Wooden Indian to deliver Neesh’s old line. It’s what the old man used
to always end his group sessions on. There was even a series of posters all along
one wall of the substance abuse oce, an arrow looking all bowed out at the
moment of the string’s release, like it’s going to crack, shatter, blow up. But it
doesn’t. It’s bent out to the side in the rst poster, it snaps back a foot or two
from the riser of the bow in the second poster, and then in the rest it’s snapping
back and following through, bending the arrow the other way now, and until
the last possible instant before the bull’s-eye, it’s opping back and forth
through the air like that, trying to nd true.
That’s how they were supposed to be. It’s what they, at fteen, were
supposed to have been doing. They’d been red into adolescence and were
swerving to each side now like crazy, trying to nd the straight and narrow. If
they did? Bull’s-eye, man. Happy days.
If they didn’t?
There were examples under every awning in town, drinking from paperbagged bottles. White crosses along the side of all the roads. Sad moms
everywhere.
“He’ll sweat it out,” Cassidy says. “Sing it out.”
“Wish we had a drum,” Gabe says.
“I got some tapes.”
“Screw tapes, man. This is for Lewis, too, yeah? But don’t tell VictorVector.”
“Maybe don’t call him that,” Cassidy says.
“It’s not bad, is it?”
“For Lewis,” Cassidy says, holding his water up in salute.
Gabe lifts his the same, says, “He always was a stupid ass, wasn’t he?”
“Smarter than you,” Cassidy says. “He got out of here.”
“But then he tried to come back,” Gabe says, drinking once and swallowing
hard. “They didn’t shoot him until he tried to come back.”
“He was just running for home base,” Cassidy says. “They’d have shot him if
he’d stayed where he was just the same.”
“Why you think he did it?” Gabe says. “His wife, that Flathead girl?”
“She was Crow, man.”
“Serious?”
“He probably couldn’t have told you even while he was doing it, yeah?”
Cassidy says, studying the clarity of this bottled water.
“Still,” Gabe says, draining his, dropping it into the re. The plastic shrivels
even before the label ares up.
“Great,” Cassidy says. “Pollute the rocks we’re going to be breathing.”
“Like I can fail the Breathalyzer any harder?” Gabe says back.
“So what’s with the antique?” Cassidy says about the rie across Gabe’s lap.
“Old man nally parted with it,” Gabe says, holding it across to Cassidy,
around the heat of the re.
Cassidy racks the bolt back, clears it, studies the long goofy stock.
“Think it’s for NBA players,” Gabe says. “Forestock’s long like that so they
don’t have to bend their arms too much.”
“It shoot straight?” Cassidy asks, shouldering it, training it out into the
darkness, one eye shut.
“Like anybody still has shells for something that old?” Gabe says. “He only
shot bird shot and rock salt through it, yeah?”
“The Great Mouse War,” Cassidy says, fake-pulling the trigger. “I bet I got
something that’d work. You know when Ricky—I went out to Williston to get
his stu.”
“Oh yeah. What’d he have?”
“Nothing. His dad said he was supposed to have all their ries, but his shit’d
been cleaned out a crew or two ago.”
“Tighty-whities.”
“All that was left of the ries was a bag of random-ass shells. Think they’re
still in the glove compartment, probably, with whatever kid book Lewis was
reading back then.”
Gabe leans forward to see the old Chevy up on blocks.
“Good you put that pony out to pasture,” he says. “She got stuck
everywhere, man.”
Cassidy sets the gun back against the trash barrel, away from the re.
“I’m going to x it up,” he says. “Body’s still good, mostly. Just need to nd a
hood, and a bed. Maybe some fenders, too. An engine, some tires.”
“Still hide your shit in it for safekeeping?”
Cassidy breathes in, looks over to the eye shine of one of the horses, watching
them, its big ears probably catching every word, saving them for later.
“Can’t even keep the ground squirrels out of it,” Cassidy says what he knows
is a moment too late.
Gabe knows about the thermos? How can he?
“Got just the gun for taking care of rodents,” Gabe says back, nodding across
to the Mauser. “Take it instead of the cash, for this?”
“You really think it still shoots?” Cassidy says.
“No reason it wouldn’t.”
“Gimme a minute,” Cassidy says. “I’m weighing you giving me something
that’s old and broke and stolen against you being too broke to ever pay me
money you owe me.”
“Ha, ha, ha, ha,” Gabe says, his mouth open wide enough for a laugh this
slow and fake. “You can sell it for a hundred fty, I bet. Maybe more if it’s
historical.”
“And when your dad comes looking for it?”
“Sell it to him, he wants it again. But he gave it to me free and clear, Scout’s
honor.”
Gabe rabbit-ears his rst two ngers up but then lowers the index, turns his
hand around slow to ip Cassidy o at close range.
“Sure, leave it, whatever,” Cassidy says.
“Only if it’s cool with JoJo, man,” Gabe says.
“She doesn’t like it when you call her that,” Cassidy says for the ftieth time
this month.
“It’s like ‘yo-yo,’ but with J’s, man,” Gabe says, and Cassidy isn’t sure
whether Gabe’s calling Jo a toy or whether he’s talking about joints. Either way,
he ips him back o, both hands, which is when headlights wash across both of
them like a snapshot.
SHIRTS AND SKINS
It’s not the same car you rode to the reservation in yesterday, but it’s the same
dad, the same son.
The dad is standing from the open door of the car, his headlights still
splashing white across Gabriel and Cassidy, their hands up to protect their eyes,
their shadows blasting back across the big pile of moldy laundry behind them
and then the horse pens and all the darkness past that, where you’re standing,
the tips of your long hair lifting from the hot air the car was pushing in front of
it.
“We surrender, we surrender!” Gabriel calls out, trying to duck away from
all that brightness.
The dad reaches down, turns the lights o, and while he’s leaned down, his
son shakes his head a bit in disgust, says, “So these clowns are tradish?”
“It’s not about the sweat,” his dad says, not really using his lips, just his voice.
It’s not about the sweat, you repeat, trying to keep your face perfectly still like
that. It almost works, except you’re pretty sure your eyes are grinning.
The night’s about to start.
“Then what is it about?” the boy asks.
The dad sits back down into the car, clicks the middle console open like he
forgot something. “Look at these two jokers,” he says, face tilted down. “They
were you, twenty years ago.”
Cassidy is shooting a spurt of water between his teeth at Gabriel, and
Gabriel, trying to avoid it, is collapsing one side of his chair, and Cassidy is
trying to save the chair from folding down on itself.
The boy has to chuckle.
“They’re alive,” he says.
“There used to be four of them,” the dad says.
The boy pops his door open, hangsa leg out, swings his hair back over his left
shoulder.
“All of us’ll t in that thing?” he says about the mound of sleeping bags the
sweat lodge is.
“Just the three of you,” his dad says. “I’m handling the rocks, that’s my part
of it.”
“How long?”
“Long enough.”
They stand together, their doors closing at the same time, an accident of
sound that makes the boy straighten his back, like it’s bad luck.
Gabriel isalready pushing up from his broken chair to greet them. His face is
shiny with water from Cassidy’s mouth. “To Ocer Victor goes the spoils …”
he’s saying, wiping at his cheek with his sleeve.
“What does that even mean?” the boy says to his dad.
“He read it in some bullshit book,” Cassidy says from his chair. “Ignore his
ass.”
“Gentlemen,” the dad says, shaking the hand Gabriel is oering.
“Victor-Vector sounds like a cop even when he’s o duty, man,” Gabriel says
with a halfway smile.
“I’m never o duty,” the dad says back, nodding down to the cop car he’s
driving.
The boy doesn’t look to the car with Gabriel and Cassidy, but to the camper.
All the windows are dark.
“How long since you’ve sweated it out yourself?” Gabriel is saying to the
dad.
“This is for him, not me,” the dad says, and all eyes settle on the boy.
“Nathan,” he announces, the big introduction.
The boy keeps looking at the camper, like considering how to take it apart.
Or—he can’t see your reection in a window, can he? Just your shape, your
silhouette, your shadow? Your true face?
If the boy were to tilt his chin out at you for his dad right now, this instant,
and if his dad leaned forward, peered through the darkness at the wild-haired
woman just past the light, then this could all be over in a rush, couldn’t it?
But it’s better nobody sees you. Yet.
The boy nally drags his eyes away from the camper.
“You play basketball, yeah?” Cassidy says to him, about the scrimmage jersey
the boy’s wearing black side out.
“I played ball, I’d be skins,” the boy says.
“Got a little court right over there,” Cassidy says, hooking his chin to the left
of the camper, back toward the road. “Maybe we could shoot to cool down
later.”
“Got glow-in-the-dark balls?” the boy asks right back.
“Son,” his dad says.
“They call you Nate, right?” Gabriel says.
The boy shrugs one shoulder, says, “Gabe, right? Seen you around.”
Gabriel purses his lips about this for a fraction of an instant.
“You drug him back from Shelby or what?” Cassidy says to the dad.
“Farther than we ever got,” Gabriel says, making a show of turning to nally
see what the boy had been staring at so hard. “He ever done a sweat?” he asks the
dad, no eye contact.
“You can talk to me,” the boy says.
“You ever done this?” Gabriel says, making a production of talking to the
boy.
The boy shrugs.
Gabriel says, “The idea is it’s a purication, like. Consider it a dishwasher,
yeah? We’re the dishes. It steams us up spick-and-span, man.”
“That what your friend Lewisand Clark was coming back for?” the boy says.
“Clean the spots o his soul?”
Gabriel smiles a tolerant smile, looks back to Cassidy, who wows his eyes out
like what did they expect?
“This is about you,” the dad says. “Not all that. Got it?”
The boy stares across the dying re at the paint horse.
“Y’all know Lewis was coming this way, though?” the dad says to Gabriel
and Cassidy.
“Never o duty …” Gabriel singsongs, just generally. “Always trying to solve
some crime, put another Indian behind bars.”
“Lewis left, he was a ghost,” Cassidy says.
“White woman,” Gabe adds, all the explanation necessary.
“And one postal worker,” the dad adds, looking around the place. “She was
Crow, wasn’t she? Saw her picture in the paper. Bet the wife caught him
creeping across to her tipi.”
“Lewis wouldn’t,” Cassidy says.
“Wouldn’t what?” the boy says. “Cheat on his wife, or kill two people?”
Gabriel touches a place on the side of his face, by his eye.
The dad’s still looking around.
“Where’s your dogs, Cass?” he nally says.
Cassidy looks around like just missing them.
“Cass’s dogs, they’re the criminal sort, I guess,” Gabriel says, unbuttoning
his cowboy shirt. “They see tribal PD, pew, they’re gone for the hills, man.
Anybody with a badge, I mean. Even that way with game wardens, right? They
can’t tell Denny Pease from PD. Stupid dogs.”
Cassidy stands, is unbuttoning his shirt now as well.
“You haven’t eaten today?” he says to the boy, the cadence of his words old
and Indian, and mostly fake.
“Just water,” his dad says for his son.
“Same,” Gabriel says.
Cassidy nods that him, too, yeah.
“ESPN’s on at eleven, yeah?” the boy says to his dad.
“It’s on again at two,” his dad says back.
“Speaking of numbers …” Gabriel says, squinting like it’s painful to have to
be bringing this up.
The dad passes him ve bills. Cassidy tracks this money into the pocket of
Gabriel’s jeans, o and folded on the arm of the chair.
“You ever wonder where the term buck-naked comes from?” Gabriel says,
down to his saggy boxers.
“Listen close,” Cassidy warns, stepping out of his boots, “you’re about to
hear some good lies.”
“Settlers moving into Indian territory used to call us bucks, back when,”
Gabriel says with authority, looking around for what to lean on while he onelegs it out of his boxers. “Because we were always horny, I guess, right? They
could tell we were because we were naked, since Levi’s hadn’t been invented
yet. So, you know, them Indians coming in to the trading post, They’re all
naked again, Jim, what are we going to do? Look, look, hide the women, those
bucks are naked, man, they’re buck-naked …”
“Told you,” Cassidy says, folding his pants over the back of his chair.
“Isn’t there usually singing or a drum or something?” the dad says, studying
the mound the lodge is.
“Doesn’t have to be,” Gabriel says, balling his boxers up in his hands, being
sure they’re touching every last one of his ngers, the boy notes with distaste.
“I’ve got some tapes,” Cassidy says, making like to go over to his camper.
“Don’t worry about it,” the dad says.
“It’s just—” Cassidy says, but this dad does his right hand at, palm down,
and moves it from left to right, cutting this idea o. It’sa hand signal the boy—
you can smell it on him, can see it on his face—remembers from a picture book
in elementary: how the old-time Blackfeet used to talk with sign language when
they needed to.
He hates being from here. He loves it, but he also hates it so much.
“Just send him in when he’s ready,” Gabriel, naked, standing there like a
dare, says to the dad, and holds the ap of the sweat lodge open for Cassidy to
duck in. “Cool?”
The dad nods a curt nod and an ass ash later Gabriel is in the lodge as well,
the Army coat apping shut behind him.
“You’re serious about this, really?” the boy says to his dad.
“He always hasa bunch of dogs out here …” the dad says back like a question,
shining his ashlight all around, holding it at his shoulder exactly like the cop he
can’t stop being even for one night.
The boy leans back against the car and peels out of the scrimmage jersey all at
once, turning it inside out in the process, so it’s shiny white now. He folds it
neatly over hisarm, all the same, like turning it inside out had been just what he
wantd to do. The air prickles his skin. He rubs his arms with his hands, hisses air
out through his clenched teeth.
“That horse is watching me,” he says.
“Sounds like it’s you watching the horse,” his dad says back, still studying the
night for the chance of dogs.
“So what am I supposed to do in there?”
“Figure it out.”
“It’s bullshit, you know.”
“When I was fourteen I knew everything, too.”
The boy shakes his head, kicks his shoes o, is already counting the seconds of
this night.
THREE LITTLE INDIANS
“This lodge is dank, Nate,” Gabe says when the shape of Nate nally darkens
the ap. He’s been saving that line special for the kid, just so he can hate on it.
It’s good to give them focus.
“It’s Nathan,” the kid says, settling in on the missing point of the triangle,
the chipped-out little pit between them already disappearing in the darkness
again now that the ap’s shutting. Evidently Victor was holding it up for his son
to enter. Probably making sure Gabe wasn’t making it actually dank in here.
It’s a sweat lodge, not a human-sized bong.
“Welcome,” Cass says, still playing the ancient Indian.
Gabe hits him in the chest with the back of his hand.
“First time I did this, I wore a swimsuit,” Gabe says, trying to dial them all up
to today instead of a hundred years ago.
“Thought it was supposed to be all hot in here or something,” Nate says.
“You ready?” Cass asks.
“We can’t see you nodding, man,” Gabe says. “I mean, if you’re nodding.”
“Ready, yeah,” Nate says.
“And this isn’t some toughest-Indian-in-the-world thing,” Cass says. “You’re
supposed to get hot, but not hot enough to pass out.”
“Well, that’s where the visions are,” Gabe says. “But whatever.”
“Think I’ll be all right.”
“You’ll think this is stupid, me saying it now,” Gabe says. “But the cool air,
it’ll be down near the ground. If you need a good breath.”
“And it’s about praying, too,” Cass says. “Talking to whoever you need to
talk to, all that.”
“With my dad listening right outside,” Nate says.
“Too many sleeping bags,” Cass says. “This is just us in here.”
“We’ll be talking to a couple of our friends,” Gabe says. “Just so you know.”
“Which one?” Nate says. “The killer one, or the one who got killed?”
Gabe licks his lips, looks down into the darkness of his lap. It’s just the same
as the darkness everywhere else.
“When we were your age, doing these,” he says. “Our … our counselor, this
old dude, Neesh—”
“That’s his granddad,” Cass cuts in.
“You’re nodding at Nate, I take it?” Gabe says.
“Nathan,” Nate says.
“Neesh Yellow Tail was his granddad, yeah,” Cass says.
“No shit?”
“No shit,” Nate says.
“Anyway,” Gabe says. “Neesh, Granddad, whatever, he told us that none of
the old stories are ever about a war party attacking a sweat that’s happening.
That it wouldn’t just be bad manners to do that, it would be the worst manners.
You don’teven jump somebody when they’re done, are all staggering out, weak
and pure and shit. It’s a holy place, like. It means right here where we are, it’s
about the safest place in the Indian world.”
Nate snickers, says, “Safest place in the Indian world? That means we’re
only eighty percent probably going to die here, not ninety percent?”
“Nobody ever dies in a sweat,” Cass says. “Not even the elders. I’ve never
heard of it, anyway.”
“This where we eat the mushrooms?”
Gabe drops his head back to smile up into the idea of the domed roof
muing their voices, says, “Dierent tribe, man.”
“Unless you ordered pizza,” Cass chimes in, nally joining this century.
“I can do that?”
“After, sure,” Gabe says. “I like meat lover’s. That’s real Indian pizza.”
“Nobody says ‘Indian’ anymore,” Nate says, voice somewhere between
insult and disappointment.
Gabe closes his eyes, lilts out, “One little, two little, three little Natives,” lets it
fall dead between them all, then says: “Doesn’t really sound right, does it?”
“We grew up being Indian,” Cass says, something about his delivery making
it sound like his arms are crossed. “Native’s for you young bucks.”
“And indigenous and aboriginal and—” Gabe says.
“This part of it?” Nate cuts in. “I supposed to be getting all sweaty from this
history lesson?”
“You didn’t wear deodorant, did you?” Cass says, not missing a beat.
Silence.
“Does that matter?” Gabe nally asks, kind of quieter.
Cass calls out a deep ho to Victor.
“We have to be sure to thank him each time he brings a rock in,” Gabe says,
back to normal volume. “Otherwise—this is what your granddad told us—
otherwise, feeling all unappreciated, he might deliver a warmed-up bualo
patty in for us to pour water on, breathe into our lungs.”
“Bullshit,” Nate says.
“Exactly,” Gabe says right back.
“Here,” Cass says, reaching behind Gabe for … ah: the ceremonial golf club.
Of course. He uses it to guide the ap open enough for Victor to step one leg in.
A cool sigh of night air breezes in as well.
“Careful,” Victor says, making sure his path is clear. When it is, he angles the
shovel in. Balanced in it is a rock so hot there’s lava worms crawling all over it.
“Thank you, rekeeper,” Gabe over-enunciates.
In the splash of light coming in, Nate, pushed back from the pit, nods a
quick thanks as well.
Victor rotates the shovel handle, spilling the rock into the pit, along with the
embers and ashes he’d scooped up. A vortex of sparks trails up into the domed
ceiling.
“Did you wet the sleeping bags and stu?” Gabe leans over to ask Cass.
“It’d smell like dog if I did,” Cass whispers back.
Gabe nods, checks the fabric all around them again.
“Does dog hair burn?” he says, just out loud.
“Thank you,” Cass says up to Victor.
“Another coming,” Victor says.
When the hot rocks are in the pit—there’s room for maybe three more, total
—and the ap’s closed, their faces all underlit dull red, Gabe looks across to
Nate, says, “Last chance, man.”
Nate shakes his head no.
Cass reaches back, slides the cooler alongside. The dipper is an aluminum
scoop, like for feed. Cass does a humming up and up then down again
drumbeat in his chest, and Gabe gets the lope of it, falls in. When they were the
kid’s age, they always called drum circles circle jerks. And now here they are,
carrying the beat.
Gabe shakes his head, amazed at itall, and ramps up his humming drumbeat,
smiles a smile he can’t help. There’s ve twenties in the right front pocket of his
pants on the chair out there, and at least three of them are his—would be eighty
dollars, but Denorah can shoot the hell out of free throws, can’t she?
“Here we go,” Cass says, breaking his own drumbeat for a moment, and
scoops a dollop of water onto the two hot rocks.
The steam hisses up, boiling the air.
Gabe chances a look across at Nate, and for the rst time there’s a hint of
uncertainty in the kid’s eyes, and for an accidental ash Gabe is seeing himself in
the side mirror of his truck, when D asked if he was hunting again, and he
thought he saw black hair behind his reection, lifting up from the bed of his
truck.
Except that couldn’t have been. And the dogs weren’t smelling anything
back there, either. They’re just stupid dogs.
Gabe breathes the heat in deep and holds it, holds it, eyes shut.
DEATH, TOO, FOR THE YELLOW TAIL
Victor plants the shovel into the ground by the re after the next rock delivery
—it takes two stabs to make sure it’ll stand—then crosses to his car. Not to lean
back against the fender until called again, but to settle down into the front seat,
key the dashboard alive. He leans down to it, into it, comes up with a cassette
tape. He holds it to the dome light to squint at, then ips it over to the side he
wants, pushes it in.
Drumbeats well up from inside the car. Drumbeats and singing. It’s been
hot enough in the lodge for the last half hour that there hasn’t been any singing,
any talking, any anything. The last time he leaned in through that ap, he
looked from face to sweaty face, gauging each of them in turn, then nodded,
turned the shovel over, let the green jacket op down.
Maybe it’s working? Maybe this will have been a good thing?
Now he’s looking at the green lights of the dashboard, is unhooking a
handset from under the dash and clicking the connection open.
A crackling silence erupts from the top of the car, from a speaker up there.
It’s a loud nothing, full of emptiness and distance. Victor thumbs the sound
away, pushesenough buttons or switches that the drumming and singing nally
pour out of the top of that car all at once, making him inch back from the
suddenness. The sound swells, lls the night.
Inside the lodge one of them yips twice in celebration of this sound.
Victor nods with this, likes it.
He goes back to the re, stirs it with the shovel, and notes the sparks drifting
over to his son’s scrimmage jersey. He saves it from the hundred airborne
embers, folds it onto the broken chair set up by the lodge like an end table, so
Nathan can nd it rst thing when he’s done. Then he stirs the re, watches the
sparks spiral and climb even higher, like an invisible chimney, and then he leans
the shovel against the trash barrel so he can inspect the rie.
After making sure it’s not loaded, he runs the bolt back and forth twice,
swings it out like tracking something, and, ofall the places in the night he could
have pointed that barrel, he points it right at you, your head still turned to the
side, your eye on the right side rolling back down that rie at him.
Without even thinking about it—this is what you do when in a hunter’s
sights—you pull away.
Still, he sees … not you, but the motion of you. The idea of something.
He lowers the gun, stares out into the night.
“Jolene?” he calls out. “That you, girl?”
When you don’t answer he attens his lips and cuts a sharp whistle, slapping
the leg of his jeans twice.
You’re no dog, either.
Also: There are no dogs. Not anymore.
He settles the rie back down into its place, watching the darkness the whole
while. Moving mostly by feel, he pulls up three splits of wood from the pile,
works them into the embers. Moments later one of them spurts a lick of ame
up, and then all three are burning bright and orange and hot.
Victor stands in front of the re, the dark silhouette of a hunter, still
watching the darkness, the rie in his hands again like a reex, held crosswise
down low.
From the lodge there’sanother ho, this one from Nathan—the rst time he’s
been the one calling for more heat.
Victor considers the darkness, then nally turns away, trades the rie for the
shovel, and guides its blade under the burning logs, lifting a rock up and out.
He shakes the shovel, ash and embers trailing o, and runs his gloved left hand
up the handle, walks sideways to the lodge.
He taps at the door with his hip and it lifts up on a shiny silver strut, stays
lifted.
Inside are three wet faces, each of them already spent. He deposits this next
load of glowing rocks and just has his shovel clear of the lodge when one of the
horses whinnies straight out of the heart of nowhere. Victor jerks hard enough
to have dropped a burning rock if he’d still had any, but it’s just a stupid horse.
Still Victor studies the night all around him, his eyes scanning and panning,
trying to pick a shape out.
If he was smart, if he was listening to the horses, he’d already be gone.
You wouldn’t leave, though, would you? You couldn’t.
You stand over your calf until you can’t stand, and then you try to fall such
that your body can shield it. And then you come back ten years later and stand
just outside the relight, your soft hands opening and closing beside your legs,
your eyes hardly blinking.
He can no more leave his calf than you could.
And now he’s standing from his car a second time. With a beam of light to
stab around.
You atten against the ground, let that heat raze across your back.
But still, he knows. The way you can tell is the smell of the pistol at his hip.
Its oily sick taste is in his hand now.
“Come on out!” he calls, his words rolling into the darkness, turning back to
nothing.
The horses tell him about you some more, their warnings so clear, so urgent,
so simple and articulate.
He had his chance, right? This is on him. He shouldn’t have come out here.
Now his beam of light is disappearing behind the camper in hitches: walk
two steps, shine the light all around, then jerk forward again, repeat.
When he’saround the corner you can nally step out into the ickering light
from the re. The white and brown horse, the most articulate of the three,
stamps her feet, shakes her head back and forth.
You shake your head just the same back at her.
The two you want are just right there, in the lodge three steps away, naked
and helpless. Gabriel Cross Guns, Cassidy Sees Elk. The only two left from that
day in the snow.
But you don’t want to get shot in the back again, either. You can still feel the
pain from last time, don’t need this dad to blow that hole open all over again
before you’re nished.
When he walksaround the side of the camper, you follow, right in the scentpath still swirling in the air so clear you could close your eyes and not lose him.
You know to stay far from the camper, though, so he can’t pin you there in a
sudden pool of yellow. A camper isn’t a train screaming past, trapping you, but
it might as well be.
When he edges up to the outhouse he’s so sure you’re behind, your leg
muscles bunch so you can—
He brings the light around, freezes you in its glare, your mind losing itself in
that brightness.
“What—who?” he says, running his pistol back into its holster at his waist.
“You trying to give me a heart attack, Jolene?”
It’s her shirt and pants you’ve stolen o the line.
“Jolene,” you say, your voice creaky because your throat is new. You start to
clear it but there’s a sound intruding on this moment. You both look over to the
road.
A truck grinding up the road?
“Wait, you’re not—” Victor says, then leans in to see better. “You’re that
Crow from the newspaper, aren’t you?” he says. “The one who … who—?”
Then he’s raising the ngertips of his left hand to his right forehead, to show
what he’s saying: “But what happened to your eye?”
I got shot there, you don’t tell him. Twice.
He takes a step back all the same, says, “I thought you—that Lewis ki—didn’t
he … What are you doing up here?”
In answer, you bring your face back around to him, eyes wild, hair lifting all
around, and say, “This,” then rush forward, show him.
METAL AS HELL
Cassidy should have done this years ago. Sweats should be a regular thing. Just
like Neesh told them back when, he guesses.
Back then, though, this would have been just one more thing to sit through,
one more thing between the four of them and the weekend. A sweat was never
a ritual, was always just an ordeal.
Cassidy nods to himself that, yes, he’s going to keep this sweat lodge going,
maybe even dial it back from sleeping bags to layers of actual hide. And maybe
he’ll petition Denny for hunting privileges again, right? Why not? Denny’s
settled down and married these days, is at all the basketball games, even. And,
ten years has got to be enough punishment for nine elk. It’s been a clean ten
years, too. Well, come tomorrow it’ll have been a clean ten years. Cassidy has
hardly even shot any animals, just a mulie or three out on the ats, that one
moose that was asking for it, and the odd whitetail. But that’s more like herd
management, he gures. Herd management and subsistence—that’s his right as
a tribal member, isn’t it? How can slipping back into an elder section one time
take that all away?
And if Denny says no, then, well. Once Cassidy and Jo are legal, she’ll have
hunting privileges, he’s pretty sure. Or, if not from marrying in, then he’s
pretty sure she can transfer her Crow hunting stu up here, if she gives it up
back home. Then, as long as she’s in the eld with her tag whenever Cassidy
pops an elk or whatever, Denny won’t be able to say a thing. Or maybe she’ll
line up on a big bull herself.
Beside him, Gabe scooches back from the heat the rocksare throwing, shields
his face for a moment with his forearm.
All you ever want this deep into a sweat, it’sa bit of reprieve. But you’ve got
to push through that.
“Good?” Cassidy says across to Nathan.
Nathan’s sitting with his knees up, his head hanging down.
He sort of nods. Either that or a sluggish death rattle. A last spasm.
Cassidy angles the cooler up onto a corner and lays the scoop down at, its
nose in that corner, then tilts the cooler back the other way to get at the last bit
of water.
“For Ricky,” he says, tipping a sip out onto the ground before taking a drink
himself. It’s as hot as ten-minute-old coee by now.
He oers it to Gabe, who takes it like each time, says, “For Lewis,” spilling a
bit out, but passes it on around without drinking. Because, he said early on,
isn’t that the dog food scoop?
Horses, Cassidy hadn’t corrected. And just oatsat that, because Jo’s paint was
raised to expect more than hay or cake. But Gabe doesn’t really know horses,
doesn’t really know how inert oatsare, that this scoop is probably as clean asany
spoon at the diner in town.
Nathan takes the scoop, his hand trembling, his hair plastered to his face.
“For Tre,” he says, a little water shaking out.
It’s the rst words he’s volunteered in nearly an hour, by Cassidy’s
reckoning.
The kid’s coming around. Breaking down. Playing along.
Good.
Tre is the high schooler the wake was for a couple of weeksago—which, now
that Cassidy thinks about it, is probably about when Nathan split town, ran
away into the wilds of America. He only made it to some skunky trailer on the
other side of Shelby, but that counts.
Tre, Tre, Tre. The wake was the rst time Cassidy knew that was the way that
name was spelled. He’d always assumed it had four letters, like what you carry
food on in a cafeteria.
How had he died, even? Cassidy can’t dredge it up, not with the heat
turning his thoughts to syrup. Was he Grease’s nephew, maybe? But that can’t
be right, Grease isn’t old enough. Georgie, then? Somebody who was a senior
when Cassidy was a freshman.
“Kill it,” Gabe says to Nathan about the last of the water, and, after
conrming with Cassidy—just eyes, no energy to spare—Nathan tips the scoop
up, cashes it, holds it back across.
Cassidy takes it. Good thing aboutaluminum is it doesn’t heat up in a sweat.
What’d they use in the old days, wood? Horn? A bladder? The skullcap of a
wolverine, because the old days were metal as hell?
Doesn’t matter. This isn’t the old days. Exhibit one establishing that: outside
the lodge, Victor’s tape goes silent, to the end of itself again, and then there’s a
few seconds of silence while the deck looks for the rst song on the other side
again.
“This one again?” Gabe musters the breath to say, because he thinks he’s
hilarious.
“Try going on a trip with him,” Nathan says back, his chest shaking twice
with what Cassidy thinks is a weak attempt at laughter. The weakest attempt at
laughter.
Gabe is having to waver to stay sitting upright. But he can do it until sunup,
too, Cassidy knows. Of the four of them, Gabe would always be the one still
sitting on the toolbox in the bed of the truck after everybody else had slouched
over, passed out. It was like he was waiting for something. Like he knew that if
he gave in, shut his eyes, he was going to miss it, was going to get left behind.
Of the four of them—and Cassidy hates to say it—of the four of them,
Gabe’s the least likely to still be aboveground, too. He’s always been the rst to
jump, whether it’s o a cli into some big water or into the face of some
cowboy outside a bar.
“Like this,” he’s telling Nathan now, lowering his own mouth right almost
to the ground and sucking air in, making a show of swelling his chest out
because the air down there is so much cooler, so refreshing.
“Where a hundred asses have sat,” Nathan’s saying back.
“Don’t forget the dog piss,” Gabe says, just giving in and lying on down.
Cassidy smiles, greys out for a second, maybe two.
This is for Lewis, he’s telling himself. Lewis, who was trying to come home.
It’s funny, almost: Lewis runs for home, dies on the way. Ricky runs away
from home, dies on the way. Gabe and himself stay right here, are perfectly ne.
“Hey,” Cassidy says down to Gabe.
“Just resting my eyes,” Gabe mumbles back.
Nathan lowers his face again, his long hair a wet curtain, the rest of him
mostly a silhouette in the ashy, humid darkness.
“About Lewis,” Cassidy says.
Gabe gets an arm under himself, cranks up to a sitting position, dirt sticking
all to one side of him because he’s so sweaty, and because the ground is thawing
under them.
“We really out of water?” he asks.
“They said he had an elk calf with him, right?” Cassidy says.
Gabe xes his unsteady eyes on Nathan, but Nathan’s just still. Either not
listening or listening and not caring.
“Serious,” Gabe says, about Victor’s tape. “I like drums as much as the next
red-blooded, red-skinned, beer-drinking—”
“He was carrying an elk calf home,” Cassidy insists.
“Wrong season,” Gabe says, waving this o. “Must have been slow elk.”
“Wrong for them, too,” Cassidy says.
“Horse.”
“You don’t run with a foal. It’s too heavy.”
Gabe repositions himself, but even the air is hot.
“I never told you,” Cassidy says.
Gabe stills, looks to Nathan again, then back to Cassidy.
“That last hunt,” Cassidy says. “Thanksgiving Classic or whatever Ricky
called it.”
“Thought that was me,” Gabe says.
“That little heifer elk Lewis shot,” Cassidy goes on. “She had one in the
oven.”
“I thought I shot her …” Gabe says.
“Your brain’s melted,” Nathan tells him.
Gabe shrugs like the kid’s right, says to Cassidy, “It was—it was
Thanksgiving, man. Maybe that little elk just had a turkey in the oven, yeah?”
He pats his own belly to show what oven he’s trying to mean.
“It was the Saturday before Thanksgiving,” Cassidy corrects.
“Tomorrow,” Gabe says with a goofy grin, looking down to the watch he’s
not wearing and also doesn’t wear, and wouldn’t be wearing in a sweat anyway.
“Lewis buried it,” Cassidy says. “That—that unborn calf, whatever.”
This silences Gabe.
“This is that same scrawny pre-cow he made us drag all the way up the hill?”
he nally says. “The one got us caught by Denny the man?”
“We were getting busted anyway.”
“This is when y’all shot up that herd?” Nathan asks.
Cassidy and Gabe both look over to him.
“Denorah told me,” he says, like challenged to answer.
“You told her?” Cassidy says to Gabe.
“Who else that was there might have told her?” Gabe says right back, then
does his lips like he’s going to spit onto the rocks but can’t muster any spit, so
ends up just leaning over like a drunk old man telling important secrets to the
ground.
“Oh yeah,” Cassidy says.
Denny. Denny Pease. Of course he would have told Denorah this story by
now. Anything to make Gabe look worse than he already does.
“What are you saying?” Gabe says then to Cassidy, picking the idea of that elk
calf back up. “That Lewis was all messed up? That all those elf books nally
caught re in his brain, made him kill two women and run around with an elk
baby until the soldiers shot him down?”
“It wasn’t the books,” Cassidy says.
“Elves?” Nathan says, watching the two of them now.
“Breathe, breathe, you’re hearing things,” Gabe says.
“How much longer?” Nathan asks.
“You cured yet?” Gabe asks back.
“Of what?” Nathan says. “Being Indian?”
Gabe chuckles without really smiling, which is a sound Cassidy knows. He
puts his ngertips to Gabe’s chest to keep him there, saysacross to Nathan, “You
can leave whenever you want, man.”
“Once you’ve been purified,” Gabe adds unhelpfully, and then leans over to
cough a lung up. Maybe two.
After nearly a minute of it, Nathan says to Cassidy, “He going to be all
right?”
Cassidy studies Gabe, on his hands and knees now, nearly puking.
“One way or the other,” he says.
Nathan shakes his head in amusement.
“My dad says he’s busted him he doesn’t know how many times,” he says.
“White man’s laws,” Cassidy says. “Getting picked up, that just proves he’s
Indian.”
“He says he busted you, too.”
“Your dad’s a good cop, mostly,” Cassidy says. “Just messes up sometimes.”
After a second or two, a grin crosses Nathan’s face.
“He’s standing out there like a cigar store Indian or something,” he says.
“He called in sick on a Friday night for this,” Cassidy says. “Because of being
here, he’s going to have to work shit detail for the next month, probably. He’s
doing this for you, man.”
“He doesn’t have to.”
“Tell him.”
“He doesn’t understand anything.”
“He was the rst one into the Dickey house after that—Tina, with the gun?”
Cassidy says, wincing from having to remember that. “He’s scraped so many
kids up o the asphalt he could probably write the manual for how to do it best
so they stay in one piece. He’s had to carry stoned babies to grandmothers and
he’s had to walk out into the grass to nd other grandmothers. Some of the
drunks he shakes awake in the morning, they’re sti, and he remembers them
from second-grade homeroom. His rst week, he was the rookie cop they made
drag Junior Big Plume in from the shallows, when his face was all … he sent my
brother Arthur to prison, how about that? He doesn’t want you to end up
there, too.”
“I’m not like him and Granddad,” Nathan is already saying, his lower lip
trembling hard enough he has to bite it in.
“He’ll stand out there and keep that re going for you for as long as you
need. That’s all I’m saying. Not every Indian dad’s like that. You got one of the
good ones, man.”
“It’ll turn into an old-time Indian story,” Gabe chimes in, his voice weak and
spent from the coughing. He plants a hand on Cassidy’s shoulder to pull
himself upright again. “It’ll—it’ll be the story of the dad who stands outside the
lodge for seven days, having to go farther and farther out for wood to keep the
re going, and then he asks the beavers to bring him some, meaning he’ll owe
them a favor, and then when the re almost dies out once, he needs some
kindling, so he has to—has to call a hawk down to deliver him some dried moss,
so he’s going to owe him something, too, then, then it’s something with a
muskrat, then, then …” but he loses it to coughing again.
Cassidy shrugs to Nathan like, Yeah, that.
“Aren’t we supposed to be singing and praying and all that?” Nathan says,
looking from Cassidy to Gabe.
“We are,” Cassidy says.
After that they all stare into the glowing rocks.
“We need more water,” Gabe nally says. “Maybe if we had, like, water guns
in here, right? Old-time Indians never thought of that, I bet.”
He nger-shoots imaginary streams of cool, cool water at Cassidy, at Nathan,
then into his own mouth, just drinking it up.
“You could have drank some from the cooler,” Cassidy tells him.
“Got … standards,” Gabe says.
“I’ll ask my dad,” Nathan says—any chance for escape—which is right when
the ap pushes in the way it does when Victor is nudging it. Except, no Victor.
Are the dogs back, then?
“Here,” Gabe says to Cassidy, and hauls the cooler into his lap.
Gabe lies back for the sacred golf club, aims it for the ap, and pushes.
Outside, instead of Victor’s thick legs, it’s a woman’s long, very nice ones.
Nathan, naked and fourteen, pushes back into the darkness with his heels.
“Holy shit,” Gabe says to Nate, impressed. “You really order pizza?” Then,
to Cassidy, “Town Pump delivers out this far? Also, Town Pump delivers?”
“I got this,” Cassidy says, and sets the cooler to the side, stands up through
the ap.
“How’s it going in there?” Jo asks.
“Hot,” Cassidy says, riing his hair with his hand and looking down his
front side. “Pretty naked, too, I guess.”
Jo cringes back from the droplets of sweat Cassidy’s hand is spraying from his
head.
He stops, looks at his hand. It’s still wet, like the whole rest of him. Then he
looks past his hand. Usually if he’s sweaty, the dogsare using him like a Popsicle.
In this chill, though, the sweat won’t be sweat for long. Couple minutes and
it’ll be pneumonia.
“See Victor when you pulled up?” he asks, looking around.
Jo turns to the darkness all around with him, says, “Thanks for bringing my
clothes in.”
Cassidy considers this, can’t get it to track. Maybe he’s that greata boyfriend,
and he just forgot?
“Everything good at the store?” he asks, meaning: Why are you here when
you’re supposed to be there?
Jo gulps a swallow down, gathers her words in her mouth, is about to say
whatever it is when Gabe calls a weak Ho! out from inside the lodge.
Cassidy keeps watching her face.
“This isn’t your fault,” she says at last. “I want to be clear on that. But—I
called home on break, yeah?”
Cassidy nods, knows that that’s when she talks to her sister, because no one
watches the break room phone.
“You know your friend who … who got shot?”
“Which one?”
“Out by Shelby. Yesterday.”
“Lewis.”
“He killed his wife and that woman he worked with?”
Cassidy nods, not much liking this lead-up.
Jo hooks her right elbow into her left palm so she can hold her hand over her
mouth, look away again. “That was—that one he worked with at the post oce,
I guess, she was my cousin Shaney. Shaney Holds. My sister just found out.”
“Oh shit,” Cassidy says. “Oh, shit.”
Jo tries to shrug it o, can’t. Cassidy goes to hug her but remembers at the
last inch how gross he is right now.
“So … so what does this mean?” he asks.
“It means she’s dead,” Jo says, maybe about to cry. “My aunt, her mom, she’s
—Shaney was her last, yeah?”
“Of how many?”
“Last one to still be alive, I mean,” Jo says, threading her hair out of her face,
peering around it to see Cassidy’s eyes for a moment.
“Shit,” Cassidy says again. It’s all he’s got.
“I talked to Ross,” Jo says. “He said I can have three days, starting an hour
ago. One day to get there, one to be there, one to drive home.”
“Don’t worry about Ross,” Cassidy says. “Gabe’s been in the hole with him.
Take all week if you need. Take two.”
“I know you can’t go—”
“I can—”
“Third week of a new job and you need some personal time?” Jo says, and
lets that settle.
She’s right.
“I wanted to just go straight there,” she says. “When I didn’t show up in the
morning, though, I thought you might—”
“Thank you,” Cassidy says. “I would have freaked out, kicked everybody in
town’s ass.”
“Because that’s how you are,” Jo says with a smile.
“Gotta do what you gotta do,” Cassidy says, happy to have made her forget
her cousin for a moment.
Jo steps away from the lodge, bringing Cassidy with her.
“How’s he doing in there?” she says.
“Nathan?”
“He’s the freshman?”
“Eighth grade, maybe?” Cassidy says. “It’s good, it’s good. I wish—back
when, I wish I would have paid attention when his granddad was doing all this
for me, though. So I could, like, pass it on better.”
“His granddad?”
“He was—don’t worry about it. You need to go. You need some money,
though.”
“I can—”
“Take it,” Cassidy says, turning to the truck on blocks, the thermos of cash in
the crumbly glasspack. “That’s why we’ve been saving it, right?”
He walks over, hooks his hands on the old grille guard to slide under but
then stops at the last instant, remembering again how sweaty he is. And how
naked. And how sharp all the hanging rust is down there.
Jo’s right there beside him already, holding his arm. Pulling him to her.
They hug in spite of his sweat, her loose hair matting on his chest.
“You’re going to need a shower now,” he tells her.
“I like it,” she says back.
“Let me get my coveralls,” Cassidy says.
“I’m not completely useless, you know,” Jo says. “I can get the money
myself.”
“It was my friend who killed her.”
“Feed Cali?” Jo says, about the paint.
“I’m not going to call her that,” Cassidy says.
“In your head you will,” Jo says, and takes his face in her hands, pulls his
mouth to hers, kisses him bye, and holds him there, her eyes shut.
“Careful,” Cassidy says. “I am naked here.”
She reaches down, doesn’t help matters any.
“Two days,” she says, backing away.
“Monday,” Cassidy says back.
“I’ll leave some towels by the re,” she says. “Boysalways forget there’s going
to be an after.”
Cassidy turns to the lodge, has to shrug. She’s right. They were just going to
drip-dry, maybe. In the freezing cold. Standing in the snow.
“You’re good to drive?” he calls across to Jo. She’s on the steps to the camper.
“It’s not even that far,” she calls back, then, about the drumming coming
from Victor’s car: “One of your tapes?”
Cassidy shakes his head no and then she’s gone, inside, packing, the camper
creaking and groaning, all the windows yellow now, which pretty much means
their one light is on. But still, it looks alive in a way that pretty much makes all
of everything worth it.
Out in the darkness the horses are stomping and blowing.
“Don’t worry,” Cassidy says to them. Then, more to himself: “I’ll bring your
scoop back, sheesh.”
But where is Victor?
Cassidy studies the darkness for ten, twenty seconds, each colder than the
one before, then whistles loud and hard to pull the dogs in.
Stupid dogs. Stupid horses. Stupid Victor.
On the way back to the lodge, walking faster the closer he gets, his breath
chugging white before his face, he scoops up two dripping handfuls of snow
then lifts the ap with his leg, slow-spins in, already holding those two cool
handfuls of slush out.
“Coconut?” Gabe says, drunk on heat, taking his handful of cold and
looking over to Nathan for the rest of the joke: “He knows I like coconut avor
for my Icee.”
Nathan takes his, crushes it into his face, holds his hands there to try to get
this coolness to last.
“Coconuts,” Cassidy says, shaking his own before sitting back down, and
Gabe considers his handful of slush, considers it some more, then dollops it
down onto the rocks. Steam billows up, dialing the heat in the lodge up an
impossible degree or two more.
“Ho!” he calls out to Victor, but there’s no Victor to say it to, just drumsand
darkness, horses and cars, and, standing right there, so close now, you.
Cassidy lets the ap shut them in again.
THIS IS HOW YOU LEARN TO BREAKDANCE
The three things shuing around for foot room in Gabe’s head are:
1. a drink
2. a pee
3. Jo being out there now
What her being out there means is that staggering up and out into the cool
air for the pee he desperately, desperately needs, even though he’s drunk exactly
nothing for this whole sweat, has to be deep in the negatives as far as uids,
really, what Jo being out there means is that … he needs a towel? A g leaf? A
Bible to cover himself with? Not one of the little green ones, but a big holy
roller of a leatherbound book.
But—like there were never any naked dudes on the Crow rez?
Gabe chuckles to himself, slow-motions his ngertips up to feel his lips
smiling, because his face isn’t telling him anything at the moment.
“What?” Cass says.
Gabe just wobbles side to side, his wet head tracing secret gure eights.
The kid has his mouth down right by the melting dirt, is sucking its vapory
coolness.
Cass passes him the cooler. The kid tips it up like a giant cup, sluices the lastlast memory of water down his gullet.
“Feel like I’ve heard this one somewhere before …” Gabe leans over to say to
Cass about Victor’s stupid drums.
“Shh,” Cass says, his eyes closed like he’s trying to be inside himself, is trying
to really get into this sweat.
Sure, great.
Gabe closes hiseyes too, swims through that powdery hot blacknessand feels
his shoulders melt down, his ribs sighing in when he breathes everything in him
out, his ngertips bulbous and heavy now, his legs and feet somewhere else
altogether.
Maybe this is how it works, he tells himself, at the same time trying to be
quiet in his head, because talking to yourself is exactly how it doesn’t work. The
body slipping away is what allows the rest of you to oat up, over, out. Maybe
see some shit for once, yeah?
Except what Gabe settles on, it’s not real, he knows. It can’t be.
It’s his father sitting in his chair in his living room on Death Row.
He’s watching that same channel as always: that camera angled down onto
the parking lot of the IGA.
On his rounded little screen there’s nothing and nothing and then some
more nothing on top of that, and then—and then a tall dog trots through on
some dog mission or another.
Gabe’s father grunts approval and Gabe looks over to him like, What? Like,
This is what passes for action?
His father chins Gabe back to the television.
The same nothing, like bank robbers have looped the footage, are cracking
into the IGA, stealing all the heads of lettuce they want, for their big salad
enterprise.
Gabe snickers.
“Listen—” he says, making to go, to be anywhere else than this, there’s got to
be better visions, but now there’s a urry of motion on-screen.
Not dogs this time. Boys. Four of them.
The skin around Gabe’s eyes draws in. Either in the sweat lodge or his
father’s living room, he doesn’t know, and it doesn’t matter.
They were twelve then. Him and Lewis, Cass and Ricky.
What they have between them is a single Walkman with that one tape Cass
had stolen from his big brother Arthur.
Lewis is rst.
He puts the headphones on, Cass holds the Walkman out, keeping the cable
free, and Lewis nods with the synthesizer the way it starts out, and then he looks
around at Gabe and Ricky and Cass, his face deadly serious, and the way his
head is bobbing, he lets that infect the rest of his body.
When the beat nds his hand, his ngertips lift out to the side in some
Egyptian pose that’s already crinkling back up along his arm, hitting his neck,
throwing his head to the side like he can’t help it, and around him Cass and
Ricky and Gabe are bouncing with it.
This is how you learn to break-dance.
Gabe smiles, watching the four of them all those years ago, Lewis already
passing the headphones to the next popper-and-locker, holding the Walkman
himself now, the music still in his head.
It always will be, Gabe remembers thinking. Knowing. Promising.
It always will be.
And beside him now, his father is looking past the television screen, to the
walls of his living room, to his baseboards, which are … are crawling with—
Cass.
It’s Cass sitting beside Gabe, not his father. They’re in the sweat lodge.
Gabe breathes in deep, the hot air roiling in his chest, cooking him from the
inside, and he tries to muster a smile because they’re the turkeys in the oven
now, aren’t they? But his lips are traitors, are slugs, are so far from his face.
When he looks across to check on the kid, make sure he hasn’t passed out onto
the rocks, he sees two more shapes sitting there, eyes boring down into the heat.
Ricky.
Lewis.
Except … except, Ricky, his face is leaking down, is beaten in, stomped in,
and Lewis, he’s starting to look up, and there’s nger holes of light poking
through his chest, and … and—
Gabe stumbles up into the ceiling of the lodge and dog hair rains down.
Some of it nds the rocks, hisses a bitter taste into the air.
“I’ve got—I’ve got to,” he says, ducking now, his hand on Cass’s shoulder,
and Cass doesn’t stop him from feeling his way around to the ap, birthing
himself naked out into the night air.
A moment later, gasping the coolness in, Victor’s drum loop lling all the
empty spaces in the darkness, the cooler comes through the ap as well, for
Gabe to ll. Because somehow this ordeal isn’t over yet.
Gabe leans back, stares up into the wash of stars.
Let Jo walk up, look him up and down, shake her head. So he’s not the
toughest Indian in the world. He is the thirstiest, though, he’s pretty sure. And
not for stale water from Cass’s tank.
He’s got his own cooler just over there in the truck, right?
He nds the Mauser by the trash barrels, uses it like a cane for a few steps,
leaves it against Victor’s cruiser, pats the car’s hood like thanking it for holding
this for him. He leans on one of the chairs to steady himself and looks all
around, taking everything in.
Except for the camper and the trucks, it could be two hundred years ago, he’s
pretty sure. Not a single electric light for miles in any direction. But he’s glad it’s
not two hundred years ago, too. Two hundred years ago there wouldn’t have
been bottles of chilled beer in the cab of his truck.
When he shakes free of the chair to get some of that cold-cold beer, Cass’s
shirt tangles in his wet ngers. He holds it over his crotch in case Jo’s about to
jump up from behind Victor’s car.
Speaking of: “Um, rekeeper?” Gabe says all around.
Nothing.
“Hunh,” he says, and nally settles his eyes on the outhouse just back from
the camper, nods about the hanging lantern in there, glowing yellow.
Victor’s in the can.
Gabe grins a who-cares? grin, pushes o the side of the cruiser he’s staggered
into again somehow.
It’s so cool out here. So perfect. The snow crunching under the soles of his
feet is the best thing ever.
At his truck he stabsan arm in through the open passenger window, ips the
cooler open, shoves his hand down into the water that used to be ice. There’s
still chunks in there, even.
He draws a beer out to himself, rubs the cold bottle all over his face, his chest,
his arms. The hiss of it cracking open is amazing, the mist swirling up the best
promise ever.
“I’ve been thinking about you,” Gabe whispers into the mouth of the bottle,
and tips it up, tries to go slow so he won’t throw up.
While he’s drinking, he left-hands a pee. Cass is always saying not to piss too
close to the camper, either go on out to the trees or use the outhouse, that the
whole place is going to start smelling yellow if everybody just splashes pee all
over, but screw it. Victor’s in there anyway, and Gabe can’t wait.
Liquid in, liquid out.
With a gasp he nally breaks his long kiss with the beer, wipes his lips with
Cass’s shirt, oops, and manages a look down to what he’s peeing on.
It’s one of the dogs.
He angles his stream away, lets it sputter out, shakes o, and doesn’t zip up
since this isn’t exactly a zipper situation.
He looks over to the camper, all its lights on. To the outhouse, hunkered
down over its deep hole. To Victor’s car, drumming its loud beat out into the
night.
And the dog.
It’s one of the two pups, not Miss Lefty, but … Dancer, yeah. Dancer the
dead, dead, very dead dog.
Gabe squats down gingerly, unsurely, and touches the dog’s matted coat.
“What stepped on you, girl?” he says, petting the dog’s haunch.
Her guts are ballooned down into the interior skin of one of her back legs.
Gabe’s seen it happen before, to dogs that have been run over.
But this dog, it’s been … stomped?
Her chest has been crushed, too, and because there was nowhere for the
lungs and heart and liver to go, most of it’s splashed out the mouth in what
looks like a single chunky gout. The tongue is hanging, not swollen up yet.
“What the hell?” Gabe says, standing, looking out into the darkness instead
of behind him, where you are, on the other side of the truck. If he just turned
around, chanced a look into the passenger window, through the cab, there
you’d be out the driver’s side, watching him. Glaring hard at him, your ve-
ngered hands balled into sts.
He doesn’t, though. And he won’t. His whole life he’s been looking in the
wrong places. Why should tonight be any dierent?
“Cass,” he says then, like trying it out, “one of your horses, man, it got out, I
think. And it doesn’t like your dogs.”
He steps carefully around this dog, deeper out into the night.
Two slow steps later are the other two dogs.
Ladybear is dead, but Miss Lefty is still trying.
“Shit,” Gabe says, dropping to a knee.
Miss Lefty whimpers.
“Shit shit shit,” Gabe says, and sets his beer down in the snow, holds it there a
moment to be sure he can let it go without it tipping over.
He feels around with his right hand for a rock, nds a good heavy one, then,
with his left hand, makes sure where the dog’s head is.
She’s dead now.
He sets the rock back down, slumps on his thighs.
When he stands it’s without his beer, without the shirt. When he looks back
to his truck there’s nobody there through the tunnel the windows make.
Walking back, he runs the hair out of his eyes and smears blood all across his
face.
That rock he used, or meant to use, it was the same one you used.
It’s almost funny.
Back at the truck he grubs a rag up from under the seat, cleans his hands and
face, then, with his other hand, liberates another beer, drinks it down all at
once, and turns, does a running throw to sling the bottle out as far into the
darkness as he can.
It doesn’t land for seconds and seconds, and doesn’t shatter when it does,
just thunks.
Cass is not going to like this, he knows. Nobody likes all their dogs being
dead at once. But it’s not Gabe’s fault, either. And if—if he leaves pretty soon
after the sweat, then he won’t even have to get involved in this, will he?
“You were never even here,” he says to himself, looking around to make sure
Jo’s not suddenly standing there behind him, listening in.
Why would he even be thinking that?
“Getting jumpy in your old age,” he mumbles, and hauls the cooler of stillcold water up through the window.
It’ll be better than the water from Gabe’s tank. And they’ll need something
better to dip it out with.
Gabe sloshes the cooler onto the hood, opens the passenger door and digs
behind the seat, eyes staring straight up so his ngers can feel farther. Finally he
comes up with some random metal thermos. He twists the cap o, dumps it
into the oorboard then blows into the thermos once, hard, already turning his
face to the side.
No mice skeletons or bug husks come back at him.
He holds it upside down, taps it against the front tire to break loose anything
stubborn, and when nothing cakes out—it would just be coee anyway, right?
—he xes its thin lip into his mouth, carries it like that, the cooler in both hands
like the biggest, squarest, most refreshing g leaf.
He’s going to be a hero, bringing water back with actual chunks of ice still
oating in it. And the dogs dead in the snow? They haven’t even happened yet,
aren’t even real.
On the way back to the lodge he raises his voice, singing with the singers,
walking with the drumbeat, Indian-style.
BLACKFEET INDIAN STORIES
Nathan remembers some stupid summer program years ago, where all the tenyear-olds were supposed to be learning traditional stu. This was back when he
had three braids, was still being groomed to be an All-Star Indian. Before he
started being who he really was.
Tre had been there, too, his hair in traditional braids as well.
What they were learning for that week wasn’t riding or archery or any of the
cool stu, but how to dry meat on a rack.
Sitting in the heat of this lodge, that’s exactly what he feels like: one of those
thin strips of meat on that rack of twigs, a slow re burning under him, the sun
baking him from above.
Except there’s words cycling through his head, shaken loose by the steam.
From when his granddad was taking him through the language. From when
talking like that made sense.
Kuto’yiss.
Kuto’yisss”ko’maapii.
Po’noka.
Kuto’yiss is where his dad drove him back from yesterday, pretty much. The
Sweetgrass Hills, but use it in a sentence: I went out to Kuto’yiss maybe to die,
Granddad. To be with Tre. But your stupid son dragged me back. I went there
because you were always talking about the Sweetgrass money, do you remember?
What America kept not paying us for the hills it stole?
Use it in another sentence: I’d rather die out in Kuto’yiss than under a car
upside down in Cutbank Creek, like Tre.
And what about Kuto’yisss”ko’maapii? It’s not Sweetgrass Hills plus
“ko’maapii,” which was hard to wrap his head around back then. And also now.
What it means is Blood-Clot Boy, the hero kid born from a clot of blood,
back when shit like that was always going down, at least according to his
granddad, waving one more kid into the lodge for story time.
Nathan had never told anybody, but used to, second grade maybe, his dad
braiding his hair before homeroom every day, he’d secretly known he was
Kuto’yisss”ko’maapii. That he was here to save the people, then become a star in
the sky. Then in seventh grade Mr. Massey had explained how every young
Indian thinks he’s Crazy Horse reborn.
Denorah Cross Guns had stabbed her hand in the air about this one, and
Nathan sneaked a look back at her, like always.
“Not the girls,” she said.
“You all think you’re … Sacajawea,” Mr. Massey told her with a shrug, his
mouth tumbling down through all those syllables like the best joke.
Because Denorah Cross Guns didn’t know enough of the old-time Indians
to pick someone better, someone not a traitor, she’d saved it all up for the game
that night, and fouled out, had to be dragged o the court for ghting, and her
new dad had had to keep her real dad from crashing down onto the court as
well.
Nathan had been there in the stands as well, yelling for her with the rest of
the crowd, yelling that it wasn’t her foul. But even if it had been, right?
Denorah Cross Guns isn’t anybody’s Sacajawea. And Nathan, he isn’t any
Crazy Horse or Blood-Clot Boy. He knows that now. Those three-braid daysare
over and done with. Never mind all this sweat lodge bullshit. Never mind his
dad playing the drums out there.
When Gabriel oers the new cooler, Nathan takes it into his lap, uses the
black metal thermos to scoop up some of that water that’s so cold it almost
hurts.
Cass nods at him to go on, that he’s doing good.
Nathan dollops some of the water out onto the rocks and steam spits up
between the three of them, stranding them in their own individual sweat
lodges, almost.
Are the rocks even really supposed to be this hot?
Nathan doesn’t think so.
No way could anybody stand this for more than an hour or two. Not
without coming out cooked. A round or two ago Gabriel said he’d been baked
before, sure, but this was another level.
There’s still half the thermos of water left.
Nathan swishes it, swishes itagain, and isabout to drink when he remembers
the rule: honor your ancestors. Which is what Cass told him. What Gabriel said
was just to say somebody’s name, somebody who might not be getting a drink
otherwise, yeah?
“Granddad,” Nathan says, loud enough for the two clowns through the
steam to hear, and pours out half of what he was going to drink.
Across from him, he’s pretty sure Cass nods that this is good, this is good.
Now keep it going.
Back in his place in their triangley circle, Gabriel is next to get the cooler.
The one he just delivered.
“Neesh,” he says, like agreeing with Nathan, and tumps a splash down,
doesn’t take a drink himself. Meaning he probably drank his ll while he was
out there.
“Think he’s had enough?” Gabriel says just generally, passing the cooler to
Cass.
Cass looks up, not following, so Gabriel explains: “His granddad, man.
That’s two drinks already. He’s gonna have to go pee soon, think?”
He smiles after this, his mouth loose like his face is melting.
“What do you think ghost pee smells like anyway?” Gabriel’s going on now.
“You think it’s like all around all the time?” He tries to haul his foot up to his
nose to smell for ghost pee.
“Not hot enough for you?” Cass says back to him, then angles his face over
to the ap, calls out a deep ho for another hot rock, even though the last one
hasn’t come yet.
Gabriel slumps in response, looks up into the ceiling like for something to
save him, and big bad Ocer Yellow Tail was right, Nathan kind of knows:
Gabriel and Cass are him and Tre, twenty years down the road. Or, they would
have been, if Tre were still around. Or, if he were over with Tre now.
This is all you really need, isn’t it? Just one good friend. Somebody you can
be stupid with. Somebody who’ll peel you up o the ground, prop you against
the wall.
Example fty-eight, about: Gabriel has sharpened his hand into a blade, is
touching Cass’s shoulder with it, just enough to get a jolt of electricity from
Cass, a jolt that can travel up his arm, cock his head over to the side in the
stupidest, least robotic way.
“Shh, this is serious, man,” Cass hisses to Gabriel, and Nathan shakes his head
about the two of them, one grooving while sitting on his bare ass, one
ceremonially dipping the new scoop into the water, holding it up like you have
to look hard at it before tipping a little out for the dead to drink.
But then he doesn’t tip any out.
He’s still studying this black, onetime-pricey thermos.
“What?” Gabriel says, stopping his slow-motion serpentine groove. “I mean,
I know it’s not a dog food scoop, man, but some of us have higher—”
“Where’d you get this?” Cass asks, zero joking.
Gabriel shrugs, doesn’t answer, goes back to his stoned swaying, and only
looks around slow when Cass is up and gone through the ap, taking the black
thermos with him.
“This mean it’s over?” Nathan says to Gabe, and Gabe tunes back in, looks
all around the lodge, nally settles on the cooler Cass let spill on his way out.
“Quick, kid,” he says to Nathan about the spilling water, “say the names of
all the dead Indians you know, be right back,” and then he’s gone just the same,
and Nathan knows this was the plan all along: To strand him here alone with his
thoughts, with his demons. With his granddad.
He shakes his head at the stupidity of it all.
What would Crazy Horse do? he asks himself. Probably stay in here all night,
then stare everybody down when he walked out naked, all the rocks cool,
outlasted.
Either that or he’d count to one hundred, be done with this Indian bullshit.
Highlights are on at eleven, he reminds his dad, out there somewhere.
How about we make them?
AND THEN THERE WAS ONE
Ten years and now you’re here at last.
From the herd, you have the scent and the taste and the sound of Richard
Boss Ribs getting beat to death in that parking lot in North Dakota, and you felt
Lewis Clarke catching bullets with his chest, his body dancing against your
own, his arms holding you like you were all that mattered, but this time you’re
going to see it happen.
It’s going to be dierent. It’s going to better. It’s going to have been worth
the wait.
Before, you were standing by the horse pens, close to the dogs. Now you’re
on the other side of the driveway, from walking back from the outhouse, your
chin and mouth black with blood.
Neither of these last two know you’re in the world at all. That day in the
snow they shot you, to them it’s just another day, another hunt.
That’s why it has to be like this.
You could have taken them at any point over the last day, day and a half, but
that’s not even close to what they deserve. They need to feel what you felt. Their
whole world has to be torn from their belly, shoved into a shallow hole.
The rst one out of the lodge is the Sees Elk one, Cassidy. The name already
leavesa bad taste in your mouth. He’s standing in front of the lawn chair he left
his clothes on. At rst he’d grabbed the boy’s bright white shirt when it was right
there by the lodge, but he put it back, even trying to get it folded again, patting
it into place. His own shirt isn’t on the lawn chair anymore, but his pants are
still there. He’s trying to put them on but he’s sweaty and they’re tight and it’s
not working.
He grunts with frustration, sits in the chair and then straightens out in it,
attening his body to try to nd less resistance. It’s not the angle, though, it’s the
stickiness. The chair folds over, the left pair of hollow aluminum legs bending
in.
He stands from the tangle, his pants halfway up, and slings the chair around
and around, launches it as high and as far as he can, out past the horse pens.
It’s because he watches it fall that he sees his shirt, a smear in the darkness
over to the left of the trucks.
“Gonna shoot those dogs,” he says, and takes up the black thermos, stalks out
there.
A moment later the other one, Cross Guns—Gabriel, the rst one to shoot
his rie into the herd that day in the snow—is standing naked in front of the
lodge, watching his friend stalk o into the darkness.
For once he doesn’t say anything.
Slowly, he becomesaware again of the lights in the camper still on, and of his
own nakedness. He covers himself with his hands, darts to his own fallen-down
bent-over chair, does the pants dance just the same as the other one.
“Victor?” he says all around, his voice deep like that can balance out his
nakedness.
He rolls his shirt on sleeve by sleeve and you remember what the boy said
before, about one team being shirts, the other skins.
“Guess the ceremony’s over,” Gabriel says, still watching Cassidy.
He’s wrong. The ceremony’s just starting.
Look over to the other one now.
Cassidy yanks his shirt up from the ground, tries to shove his right arm
through the sleeve, but … it’s wet, it’s soaked something up, something more
than just snow.
He peels back out of it, studies the spreading stain.
Blood.
It’s then that he registers what he’s standing in the middle of.
The dogs. His dogs.
All he came out here to do was shimmy under his truck, check the muer,
see if his black thermos is still there, if it was just bad luck that his friend had
hauled an exactly matching thermos in from who-knew-where. Cassidy isn’t
trying to solve the big mystery of what happened to his dogs. Five seconds ago,
there wasn’t any big mystery. The dogs were just dogs, o doing dog things.
Like dying, evidently.
Like having their heads smashed in with … did the horses get free, stomp
them? The dogs are forever harassing them. But still.
Cassidy looks over, the horses’ eyes shining in the dull glow from the dying
re, nostrils wide from this death in the air. They’re still in the pen, couldn’t
have done this.
So.
He comes back to the closest dog, sees the guilty rock. He edges over, lowers
himself to his knees, the crust of snow sharp against the top of his feet. Right
beside the blood-crusted rock is one of Gabriel’s beers.
Cassidy is breathing hard now.
He looks over to the re, to the lodge. To Gabriel, struggling to button his
pants, having to hop on one leg so his other can be straight enough.
There’s nothing funny about him right now.
You can read Cassidy’s thoughts on his face, in the way his top lip is drawing
up on one side: Good-time Gabe. Dog-killer Gabe. Gabe the bank robber.
Cassidy places his hand to the rock and, instead of hauling it up immediately,
senses a presence the same way Victor Yellow Tail did. Not you this time, but—
a pair of sudden and out-of-place eyes looking rightat him from justa few yards
away.
The Crow, the one who lives here, the one who leaves her scent everywhere,
especially in her clothes. She’s under the old truck just like she said she would
be, one of her arms up in the chassis for that glasspack, but now she’s
motionless, doesn’t know what this night is trying to turn into. “Is it there?”
Cassidy says across to her, not loud enough for Gabriel to hear, and the Crow
doesn’t answer. “Never mind,” he says, standing with the black thermos. “I
already know.”
With that he steps out, is standing by Gabriel’s truck.
He pulls the passenger door open for the dome light.
Gabriel cocks his head over, says, “Cass?”
“Did you think I wouldn’t notice?” Cassidy says.
Gabriel steps closer, eyes squinted.
He’s heard his friend dial his tone down like this, but never for him, and not
for years, probably not since … narrow your eyes so you can inhale it … not
since Cassidy’s big brother went to prison and Cassidy drank that whole bottle
and broke into the high school at night, to wrench his brother’s old locker door
o, save it for him.
“Notice what?” Gabriel says, still edging in. “That I brought a lot of cold-ass
water into that sorry excuse for a lodge, and then you spilled it all?”
Cassidy’s body shudders with a sick laugh.
He punctuates it by slamming the thermos into the passenger side mirror of
Gabriel’s truck. The glass shatters, the frame swinging down on the lower part
of the bracket still bolted to the door, the top arm scratching a raw arc into the
paint.
“What the hell!” Gabriel says, in close now, leading with his chest.
Cassidy stands right into him for once, says, “Let me see your hand.”
Gabriel backs up.
Cassidy reaches across, takes Gabriel’s left hand in his own, turns it over for
inspection. “She hardly even bit you,” he says about the two punctures ringed
with bruise.
“What are you—?”
“Is that how you justied it to yourself?” Cassidy goes on.
“The—” Gabe says, then sees it in Cassidy’s eyes: “The dogs, no, yeah, I
mean—that wasn’t, I was going to—”
“Not the dogs,” Cassidy says. “The money, Gabe. There was nine hundred
dollars in there, man.”
“In where?”
Cassidy spins the black thermos into Gabe’s chest, says, “You know where.”
Gabe fumble-catches the thermos, sets it purposefully onto the hood of his
truck.
“You think I have nine hundred dollars on me?” he says, incredulous. “You
think I’ve ever had nine hundred dollars to my name all at once?” To prove his
innocence he shoves both hands into his pockets, rabbit-ears them back outall at
once, ve twenties uttering out and down.
“I just got that from Victor,” he says. “You saw, you were there, man.”
“And that?” Cassidy says about his other hand, still wrapped in a st, around
whatever was in that pocket.
Gabriel looks down at that hand like he wants to know, too.
But he can feel it against his palm, too, can’t he?
He steps back from Cassidy.
“I don’t—this isn’t mine,” he says. “It wasn’t here when I took those pants
o.”
“What?” Cassidy says, reaching in.
Gabriel steps back again. “Are these even mine?” he says, looking down to his
pants.
“Show me,” Cassidy says, his voice low and no bullshit.
Gabriel locks eyes with him, says, “Listen, I don’t understand what’s—” and
holds his hand out between them, palm up, and opens his ngers, peek-looking
at whatever he’s holding.
It’s the ring. The one Cassidy was keeping at the bottom of the thermos, for
the Crow.
“This is how bad you don’t want me with her?” Cassidy says, hung a sortof laugh out.
“No, wait, I don’t—” Gabriel says, depositing the ring carefully on the hood
of his truck to show how little he wants it. How little he stole it.
“And then you kill my dogs on top of that?” Cassidy says. “Did you catch
whatever crazy Lewis had? I don’t understand what’s happening with you,
Gabriel fucking Cross Guns. Tell me why you’re doing this—no, no, don’t
even try. Just tell me where the money is.”
“Listen, somebody’s … I don’t know what you’re—” Gabriel starts, but then
Cassidy cuts him o by one-handing the black thermos o the hood, spinning it
in his hand to get the hold he wants, and slamming it into the windshield of
Gabriel’s truck, leaving a deep crater, the thermos in the white center like it’s
something that blazed down out of the sky for this truck and this truck only.
Gabriel looks from the windshield to Cassidy then back to the windshield, his
eyes aring up at last.
“Right?” he says, matching Cassidy’s rising tone, and steps in, wrenches his
mirror the rest of the way o, holds it by the bracket and swings it into the rain
gutter of the cab until the roof wedges in, making a deep, unxable notch.
“C’mon, man!” he urges. “Let’s beat it to hell, yeah? Stupid truck, stupid truck,
always getting stuck right when, right when …”
When Cassidy doesn’t fall in, Gabriel slings the mirror out into the darkness,
is facing Cassidy now, his chest heaving.
“But it’s not the only truck that was always getting stuck, right?” Gabriel
says, and brushes hard past Cassidy, is picking up speed by the time he pushes o
from his own taillight, is already running before Cassidy can catch him.
“No!” Cassidy screams, diving, his ngers just hooking into Gabriel’s right
rear pocket.
For a moment Gabriel slows, but then the pocket rips away, shows ass.
“Gabe, Gabriel, no!” Cassidy screams from the ground, but it’s too late.
If either of them looked just six feet into the darkness to the right, they’d see
the white slash of your smile.
This is it. They’re doing it.
Gabriel curls around to come at the old truck from the side and drives his
shoulder into it with everything he’s got.
He doesn’t weigh much, but he weighs enough.
Cassidy is up and running already, but his pants aren’t buttoned and are too
long without boots and he doesn’t get there in time, could never have gotten
there in time.
The truck sways to the side, sways back, and Gabriel catches it in rhythm,
pushes back hard enough that one of the cinder blocks under the front axle
housing explodes, the driver’s-side front lurching down like a horse taking a
knee. No: like an elk that just got shot, doesn’t understand, is crumbling down.
“No!” Cassidy screams, and hooks his ngers into the wheel well on the
passenger side right as that cinder block comes down in stagesas well, taking the
two blocks under the rear axle with it.
For an impossible moment Cassidy holds the truck up, screaming, his mouth
open as wide as he’s ever had to open it, wide enough Gabriel even panics,
wedges into Cassidy’s foot space, hooks his hands in the wheel well like keeping
this truck up is suddenly the most important thing in the whole world.
The truck doesn’t know that, though. It hitches down farther through the
cinder block, crushes down all at once.
Cassidy falls with it and goes lower, his face sideways to the snow in an
instant, to look under, but there are no tires anymore, no wheels, even the brake
drums are gone. The truck’s sitting down on its frame. There’s no seeing under
it.
He hits the side of his st into the ground over and over, and Gabriel’s just
standing there watching him.
“Hey, man, I got a good enough jack in the truck, we can—” Gabriel says,
but Cassidy stands right into him, shoves him away.
Gabriel falls down, watches Cassidy from there.
Now Cassidy is … trying to force the hood open?
“Here,” Gabriel says, pulling himself up and stepping in, but Cassidy elbows
him away hard again.
“What’s got into you?” Gabriel says.
Cassidy is crying now, sputtering, can’t catch his breath.
Gabriel goes back, drives his elbow down into the mismatched hood once,
twice, trying to remind the springs how they work.
The ancient catch releases and the hood pops up a few inches.
Cassidy pushes his hand in, forces the rust-frozen hook over to the right, and,
with his other hand, lifts the hood in a screech of metal. He collapses back,
covering his face from whatever’s in there.
Gabriel looks from the ball of pain Cassidy is to the truck.
There’s no engine, so he can see straight through to the ground.
It’s the Crow. Part of her, anyway—her hair, matted deep in blood and
brains, all of it soaking into a nice Hudson’s Bay blanket. The crossmember at
the back of the engine bay, right about where the front of the transmission
would be, looks to have come down on her face, crushed her forehead in. And
back out.
She was trying to ball up in the safety of the engine compartment, Gabriel
can tell. She knew the truck was falling, she was scrambling ahead, pulling with
anything she could grab on to.
It would have worked, too. It should have worked.
But they couldn’t hold the truck up long enough. The truck that didn’teven
need to be falling in the rst place, except to make a dumb-ass point. Except to
get Cassidy back for bashing a windshield in, for some money and dogs Gabriel
hadn’t even had anything to do with it.
Still.
Gabriel covers his mouth with his hands, can’t get his lungs to suck air in the
right way anymore.
Now Cassidy’s stalking back from the patrol car. With the Mauser.
Gabriel steps out into Cassidy’s path, drops to his knees, oering himself, but
Cassidy goes right around him, for the truck now sitting on the Crow.
He hauls the passenger door open and leans in, a great cloud of dust
billowing up into the cab.
“Cass, man, I didn’t—what was she—” Gabriel says.
And then he sees what his friend is doing. It’s what Cassidy said earlier—that
he probably had a stray shell that would t the old gun. One of the ones from
Ricky’s foggy bag of stolen ammo.
Cassidy tries the rst shell, and when it won’t load he drops it, moves on to
the next.
“You knew this is where I keep my money,” he says to Gabriel like an
explanation.
“Dude, dude,” Gabriel says, standing, holding his hands out like they can
fend o accusations, like they can stop bullets, like they can make all of this
make sense.
Cassidy rams another shell in, works it back out, tosses it.
“Shut up,” he says. “You’re always talking. You never shut up. If you’d just
listen for once in your life—”
“I would never have hurt her!” Gabriel screams.
They both hear it when the next cartridge slides in perfect, like made for this
moment. Cassidy slams the bolt into place and steps out of the truck, the gun at
port arms, his head loose like he’s really getting ready to do this thing.
“We grew up together,” he says, sort of crying, lips rm as he can get them. “I
loved you, man. You saved my life so many times, and I saved yours back. But—
but it was her now, don’t you understand? I loved her now. She was saving my
life. I was saving hers! Everything was working for once, don’t you get it? And
now … now …”
With that he shoulders the rie, backs up enough to level the barrel deadcenter on Gabriel’s face.
Gabriel is breathing in spurts, shaking his head no, no.
When there’s nowhere to go that Cassidy can’t reach him with the rie, he
drops to his knees a second time. The rie follows him, is tethered to the bridge
of his nose.
“Do it, man,” he says. “Fucking do it already. I don’t deserve to— Just do it!
Nobody will even know, nobody will even miss me, man! You’re the only one
who would, even. If—if you’re … Just do it!”
To make it easy, he lifts his chin, stares straight up. A moment later he starts
singing, kind of with the drums still bleeding out from the top of Victor’s patrol
car but kind of more, too. Something else.
“Shut up!” Cassidy yells down at him, stepping back from this, stepping back
from having to do this.
But he keeps seeing the Crow, too, you know, the Crow through that engine
compartment, under the truck Gabriel knocked over.
“What are you even doing!” he yells to Gabriel.
“My death song,” Gabriel sputters. “Shh, this next verse is tricky.”
“You’re just making that up!” Cassidy tells him. “Everything that’s Indian,
you just make it up!”
“Shit, somebody’s got to,” Gabriel says, and goes back to the song.
It’s not even words, is just that old-time sound, always rising higher and
higher and then resetting, starting the climb again.
“I don’t … I don’t—” Cassidy says, lowering the gun, looking at his friend on
his knees, tears coming down his traitor face, running down by his ears into his
neck, into his shirt.
Cassidy is crying as well.
He wipes his tears away, raises the rie back, can’t hold it steady enough, but
he’s only ten feet away. It’s how far Lewis was from you when he shot you the
second time, in the head. And the third time.
It’s the perfect distance. It’s the distance they’ve earned.
Except this one is losing his resolve, is losing his anger, is falling into a grief
hole inside himself. But he’s on edge, too, the barrel of the rie coming up like
he means it, then dipping down again. His every nerve is frayed. What that
means is that, when Cassidy sees a white urry of motion directly behind
Gabriel, he inches back in response, startled, and tries to pull the rie with
him, ends up putting that jerking pull into a trigger he doesn’t really know.
The sound is thunder, deep and bass and ragged. It splits the night in two,
both halves falling neatly away, leaving Gabriel standing in the silence between
them.
He looks down to his chest for the hole that should be there. And then he
feels his face gingerly. Finally he pats the side of his head, comes away with
blood.
His ear. His ear has a new notch in it.
He smiles with wonder, says, “Coup,” and looks across to Cassidy, but
Cassidy is dropping the rie, is shaking his head no, his breath hitching in deep
again. But this time it’s with fear.
“What?” Gabriel says, unable yet to even hear his own voice, and looks
behind him, to whatever’s got Cassidy shaking his head no.
It’s—Gabriel is trying to process it, trying to resist it—what he sees is what
he’s most terried of ever having to see: the girl with the basketball, the Finals
Girl. His daughter in her scrimmage-white jersey. Her name shapes itself on his
lips a bit at a time, like trying to add up to her: D, Den, Denorah.
She’s still standing, her hair spilled forward, her face angled down at the
blood spreading over her bright white jersey like checking to see if this is really
real, if this is really happening.
Gabriel falls back, unaware of his ngertips on the ground, unaware of
anything except what’s just happened, what can’t be taken back, what can never
get undone.
His little girl, she—earlier in the day, at the little pad of concrete behind her
house, she’d toed up to that charity stripe, she’d used textbook form, and she
swished forty dollars’ worth of free throws through that net.
It was impossible, no kid could shoot like that. But she could. For forty
dollars.
“I’ll bring it to the scrimmage tomorrow,” Gabriel’d said to her out the
window of his truck, the engine already turning over to bring him here.
“It’ll be gone by then,” she’d said back, with her mother’s mouth. “And, you
can come to the gym again?”
“It’s a scrimmage, not a game.”
“If I’m playing, it’s a game.”
“I don’t even have it yet,” Gabriel told her, shrugging like this was the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but.
“Who’s giving it to you?” she’d asked.
“Victor Yellow Tail,” Gabriel said. “Tonight. Police money. That’s the best
kind, yeah?”
“For Nathan’s sweat?”
Yes.
Denorah had logged that, he knows now and doesn’t want to know, she’d
logged it and weighed it and considered it, and now she’d caught a ride out here
to collect before her loser-dad could spend what he owed. Before he could let it
blow away across the snow.
Only, Cassidy shot her with a 7.62mm round before she could even
announce herself, had shot her so clean that it hadn’t even thrown her back into
the lodge, had just blown a ragged plug of meat out behind her.
But she’s not meat, she’s my daughter, Gabriel says inside, screams inside,
can’t stop screaming about inside.
Exactly, you say back to him.
Gabriel slashes forward to catch her, but she tips forward onto her face
before he’s even two steps closer. He falls to his knees by his own truck, pushes
his whole face into the ground, his lips right to the dirt all the tires have cleared
of snow.
His girl, his baby girl. She was going to take the team to state, she was going
to take the whole tribe into the pros, into legend. Everybody was going to quit
painting bualo and bear footprints on the side of their lodges, were going to
have to learn to draw all the lines in a basketball. She was the one who could
plant her feet, get the rim in her sights, and drain ten free throws in a row.
Twenty. Fifty. A hundred.
She was going to make it out of here, like Gabriel never had. Like nobody
ever did. Exhibition one: Ricky. Exhibition two: Lewis.
Had he really seen her earlier today at lunch, walking away from school in
the cold in that same white jersey? Was seeing her like that supposed to have
been a warning? Was it a vision? Is Trina parked down at the cattle guard? Did
she hear the shot? Is she standing from the opened door of her car, listening
with mom ears for the next shot? For footsteps running in the dark? For her ex,
trying to come up with one more excuse?
Shit. Shit shit shit.
And: no.
There is no excuse. Not for this.
When Cassidy drops to his knees beside Gabriel like What have we done here,
Gabriel pushes him hard enough that Cassidy falls and slides, hard enough that
the recoil drives Gabriel over into the side of his truck.
“You shot her!” he screams, standing, his hands balled into sts. He’s crying
harder than he was, now. But at the same time he’s mad, mad enough to reach
around to his own cratered-in windshield, come back with the black thermos.
“And you—you pushed a truck onto Jo …” Cassidy says.
“Not on purpose!” Gabriel says, and then, just like he’s supposed to, he steps
out into the darknessafter his best friend since forever, and when Cassidy crawls
back, away from this thing trying to happen, Gabriel steps faster, nally comes
down with his knees to either side of Cassidy’s hips.
The thermos is alive in his right hand, is both completely weightless and the
heaviest thing in the world. He rolls it for a better grip, for a nal grip, for the
best way to hold it when doing a thing like this.
“You shot her, man,” he says, like he’s pleading. Like he’s trying to explain.
“You shot Denorah. You shot my little girl …”
Cassidy is holding his hands over his face.
He nods that yes, yes, he did.
His body is hitching and jerking under Gabriel, and it’s like a current is
passing between them. Like they’re kids again, learning to break-dance.
“I’m sorry,” Gabriel says, and brings the butt of the thermos down with the
weight of all their years of friendship.
Because he’s holding it wrong, his pinkie nger is between it and Cassidy’s
eyebrow.
The thermos glances o and dives into the ground, its open mouth standing
it up in the crusty snow.
Cassidy lowers his hands, blood sheeting down over his face.
He looks up through it to Gabriel, and they’re both crying, neither can
breathe right, neither wants to breathe ever again.
With an unsteady hand, Cassidy claps the snow for the thermos, nds it,
passes it back up to Gabriel, and you have to cover your bloody mouth with
your palm, because even in your most secret dreams you never would have
guessed this part, would you have?
It’s perfect, it’s amazing.
Gabriel takes the thermos, their ngers touching over that black metal, and
Gabriel remembers it all over again: D, yesterday, turning back to him with that
sharp smile, no-looking free throw number ten just like Jordan, and it hurts so
bad that he closes his eyes, brings the thermos down again, with a crunch. The
next crunch is wetter, the one after that deeper, punching through into a darker
space.
The muscles closest to Cassidy’s shin bone are the last to die.
Gabriel leans back, wavers, an insubstantial shape of a person.
Past Cassidy’s head is a dead dog, and a beer, still standing.
Gabriel crawls over, trades the bloody thermos for the beer, and drains the
bottle.
He still can’t breathe. His right hand is slick with blood, and his face and shirt
are spattered with it, and he doesn’t know whether to laugh or die, really. Both
seem reasonable.
He struggles out of the shirt and it’ll hardly come, so he tears it, balls it up,
stands to throw itas far as he can. It utters, doesn’t go anywhere. He kicks back
through the snow for his truck and stumbles into the Mauser, is a skin now
along with Cassidy, meaning they’re on the same team, like always.
He looksat the rie and then looksat it some more. His breath nally comes,
washing through his head, leaving him dizzy.
The Mauser, yes, he decides. The Mauser, for the pest that he is. He can—he
can be another statistic, he can make it so the pamphlets are right about Indian
suicide rates, can’t he? He can keep the numbers good, keep everyone from
having to print up new pamphlets. He can go—he can go with Cassidy. Maybe
even still catch up to him.
He picks up the Mauser, falls to the old truck, the one the Crow’s dead
under, and grubs cartridge after cartridge from Richard’s foggy bag, only stops
when he cues into an eye watching him.
“Jo,” he says, like of course.
The hole he shot through Cassidy’s oorboard all those yearsago, it’s pushed
down now over the Crow’s face, her eyeball bulging up through it. Gabriel
turns away shaking his head no. His ngers are shaking too much to get a shell
in right, though. He fumbles the one 7.62mm he nally nds into the snow.
His chest shudders with laughter. He can’t even do this right. He lets the rie
fall away, is looking back to the re, squinting like to see it better. Or to see
something over there better.
Denorah. Den. D.
He pushes away from the truck, makes himself take the walk to her. Just to
hold her again. He wants to repeat her season average to her, and project what
would have been her junior year on varsity, her senior year in the state
tournament. He wants to tell her about all the games she would have won, all
the posters they would have made with her on them. The line of shoes that
would have been named after her.
Did you get the new Cross Guns yet?
They’re so dope.
Do I look like her when I come up like this, on the toes?
And then he’s there, stepping around the sparking re.
“D?” he says.
Not because it’s her. Because it’s not. It never was.
Gabriel looks back to the mound in the snow his best friend is, then to notDenorah again.
It’s the—it’s the kid? In the scrimmage jersey he has no reason to be wearing,
that’s black on the outside, bright white on the secret inside. His hair is down
and everywhere, could be Denorah’s hair, was D’s hair.
“N-Nate?” Gabriel says. “Nathan?”
Where the Mauser caught him is low down in the left side. Not the kill zone,
but close enough. The kind of shot where you just have to follow whatever you
shot back into the trees, wait for it to collapse at the end of its blood trail.
But he’s not dead yet. Not quite.
“Hard to kill, aren’t you?” Gabriel says with an almost smile.
It shakes the boy awake, and, maybe because Gabriel’s standing over him
bloody-handed, bloody-faced, the boy jerks away, pushes with his heels, shaking
his head no, no, and something else, the syllable and sounds coming fast, in a
tumble, over and over.
Po’noka?
Gabe narrows his eyes, has to hunt deep in his head for this old word, then
stand real still in his thoughts, wait for it to stand up from the snow, a brown
form against all that white.
“Elk?” he says, and, following the boy’s eyes, looks behind him, looks all
around, but you’re not there anymore.
When Gabriel comes back to the boy, the boy’s still trying to get away,
leaving more and more blood in the dirty snow.
“Wait, wait, let me get your dad,” Gabriel says, going to his knees and
holding his red hands up and out to show he’s no threat.
It doesn’t help.
The boy pushes back and back, past the lodge, under the lowest rail of the
horse pen, leaving dark smears on the pipe.
“No, listen—” Gabe says, trying both to follow and not be scary, but he stops
when the horses whinny in their panicked way about this intruder underfoot.
“Shh, shh, guys,” he says to them, stepping in, but the way he smells—they shy
back, rear up, rise and fall in the darkness, and there can’t be room in that pen
for all four of them, can there? Their weight coming down shakes the ground
and Gabriel looks away, kind of numb, nds himself just staring down at a clot
of the blood the boy left behind in the slush. A clot of blood he probably needs,
or would have needed, if the horses hadn’t done their thing to him.
“Another ne job,” Gabriel says, walking away from this, kicking snow with
his bare feet, his hands running through his hair. He sits on Victor Yellow Tail’s
hood and stares into the re, the drums beating, voices rising, his mind
working, mouth muttering: Why did he think the kid was D, even? Why would
he? It was … it was because the kid had been wearing a black jersey, right? And
the last time Gabriel had seen the daughter, she’d been wearing white?
Still, was an inside-out jersey, plus long black hair, really enough for him to
think Nate was Denorah? Was he not thinking right because Cass had just
clipped his ear? Because Jo had just—Why was she even under that truck? Why
was she home at all? Didn’t she work most nights?
“What the hell is happening here tonight?” Gabriel says, pushing away from
the car and looking all around.
“Po’noka?” he says at last, trying it out like it might be the key that opens
everything up.
What would an elk have to do with this, though? How could an elk make
them all kill each other? Why would an elk even care about two-leggeds, unless
the two-leggeds were shooting at them?
And why is he even thinking like that? Two-leggeds? Has he fallen so far back
into himself that he’s sitting in Neesh’s lodge again, listening to the old bullshit
stories? If he’s there again, though, then he’s there with Cass and Lewis and
Ricky, he gures. Back when there were four of them.
He rubs that spot beside his eye.
“One little, two little, three little Indians,” he singsongs, and kind of laughs,
kind of cries. It turns to coughing again, and when it won’t stop he stumbles to
the camper, tries the locked door, then feels his way around to the outhouse. All
he needs is tissue, some toilet paper, something for his nose or he’s going to
suocate.
When he swings the outhouse door open, Victor Yellow Tail is there, a bib of
blood on his uniform shirt, his head lolling, his pistol in his hand like he had
plans.
An elk mother will use her hooves when she can, but she’ll bite if she needs
to.
Gabriel closes hiseyes, opens them again, and Victor Yellow Tail is still there,
still dead.
“Then there was me,” Gabriel mumbles, smiling a sloppy smile, and closes
the door. It swings back open, so he shuts it again, and again and again and
again, slamming it shut enough that none of this can even have happened.
But it did.
And he’s the only one still standing knee-deep in it all, he knows. He’s the
one they’re going to say did it, who cares why. Because he’s an Indian with a
Bad Track Record. Because a Tribal Police Ocer Came Out. Because He
Didn’t Like His Other Friend’s Fiancée. Because His Mind Boiled Out in a
Sweat. Because His Murderer Friend Just Got Shot. Because the Great White
Stepfather Stole All Their Land and Fed Them Bad Meat. Because the Game
Warden Wouldn’t Let Him Get His Own Meat. Because His Father Reported
Him for Stealing a Rie. Because the Rie Was Haunted by War. Because
because because. He did it for all those reasons and whatever else the newspapers
can dream up.
Unless he runs.
Unless he runs to the mountains and lives there the old way, never comes
back down, even for beer. But, maybe just to go to one of his daughter’s games?
Maybe just to stand by the Boss Ribs’s grave fence? And wherever Cass gets
buried? And Lewis?
He shues up to the re, opens his palms to that wonderful heat. He’s
shivering, his teeth clanking against each other. He looks to the lodge, sprayed
now with Nate’s blood, hates himself for being thrilled it’s not his daughter’s
blood, and then he studies the old truck, its frame on the ground. Finally his
eyes settle on the mounds out in the snow.
He goes there, past the dogs, and drops to his knees beside his best friend.
“It’s just you and me, man,” he says down to him.
He sits down, the snow not even cold anymore, even though one ass-cheek
of his pants is apping. He works his legs under Cassidy’s head, cradles his face,
lowers his forehead to what’s left of his friend’s, and then he looks up fast, as far
into the sky as he can.
“It wasn’t her, man,” he says, knocking his forehead into Cassidy’s twice,
kind of hard. Love taps. “It wasn’t D, C.”
Cassidy just stares. Hiseyes don’t look the same direction anymore. In death,
he’s an iguana. Gabriel braces himself for Cassidy’s mouth to open, for a great
tongue to roll out, slap at something.
It wouldn’t be the worst thing this night’s had to oer.
“This is—this is goodbye, man,” Gabriel says. “I’m going to—they’re going
to think it was me. And I guess it was, for Jo. And the kid, too. And you.
Denitely you, man. You should have just—you should have pulled your shot
an inch to the left, man.”
He drills the pad of his middle nger into the dot of scar tissue by his right
eye, the same place he’s been touching since he was a kid.
“You always were a terrible shot, though,” he says, then closes his eyes hard.
“But it wasn’t D,” he whispers, thrilled to be delivering this news. “It wasn’t D.
That’s the main thing. She’s all right. Now I’m … I’m going up to live with the
—”
When he looks up to the snow crunching then not crunching, you’re
standing there, holding the Mauser across your hips, left hand ran all the way up
the forestock, to the uneven checkering. It hurts to touch it, to even think about
touching a rifle, but this is the only way now.
You can feel your eyes are the hazel and yellow that feels right, and that
they’re maybe a smidge or two bigger than makes sense for this face.
Gabe nods, says, “It was you who did all this, wasn’t it? Lewis too, right?”
You don’t owe him an answer. You don’t owe him anything.
“Anybody ever tell you you’ve got eyes just like an elk?” he says. “Not the—
the color. But … something, I don’t know.”
Down the slope the herd isalready waiting for you, drifted in like ghosts, not
even one of them bleating or calling. The ground under them is churned and
dark and raw. The smell is so wonderful. You can’t breathe it in deep enough.
“The kid saw you, didn’t he?” Gabriel says, laughing it true. “P-Po’noka,
right?”
“Ponokaotokaanaakii,” you say down to him. Elk Head Woman.
Gabriel works through this, gets it enough, looks up to you and nods that he
can see that, sure.
You hold the rie out to him. An oering.
“Why?” he says, shying away from it, but nally having to catch it when you
throw it sideways down at him.
He plants the Mauser’s butt in the snow to prop himself up, says it again.
“Why are you doing all this?”
If you tell him, he would get to die knowing it was all for a reason, that this
has been a circle, closing. Which would be more than you ever got, that day in
the snow.
You nod to the rie he’s holding, say in his bitter English, “Do it or I go after
your calf for real.”
He watches you for maybe ve seconds here, and then he looks to this rie.
When he racks the bolt back, the wet brass ashes in there for a bright instant.
“I dropped that shell in the snow,” he says.
“It stinks,” you tell him back, crinkling your nose.
“You’ll really leave her alone?” he says, ramming the bolt home in a way that
straightens your back. “You won’t touch her? She’s—you know she’s going to
get away from here, don’t you? You can see that?”
It would be so easy for him to angle that barrel at you, wouldn’t it?
But he’s not thinking like a hunter right now. He’s thinking like a father.
“Okay, okay,” he says at last, and angles the awkward rie around, the barrel
chocking up under his chin, his head having to tilt up because the rie’s long.
“Like this?”
His breath is fast and shallow like getting ready, and then he closes his eyes,
pulls the trigger all at once.
Click.
“Oh shit,” he says, ipping it back around with a halfway laugh, the barrel
pointed right into you now, his nger still on the trigger, his thumb guring the
big obvious safety out.
“You promise you won’t come after her?” he says one last time.
You shake your head no, so he’ll get the rie back under his chin. But then he
stops, says, “Wait, does that mean you will or you won’t go after her?”
He nally smiles when you’re just drilling your eyes into him. He leans back
a bit, says, “I always—I wanted it to be like those two Cheyenne I read about,
yeah? I wanted to run my horse back and forth in front of all the soldiers, so it
would be like … it would be heroic. Like the old days. Not like—not like this.”
“Now,” you tell him.
“Okay, okay, geez,” he says, “at least let me—” and instead of using his own
hand, he shoves his friend’s dead index nger through the trigger guard.
“I killed hisalmost-wife,” he explains, getting the nger positioned just right.
“This is—he’s avenging her, like. It’s an Indian thing. You’d understand if you
were, you know, a person.”
He opens his mouth, swallows the barrel in deep enough that his eyes ll
with tears. The metal rattles against his teeth. His breath is fast and shallow, like
it matters anymore how much air he has.
“D, D, D,” he says around the barrel, and nods once to himself for rhythm,
then again to be sure, and on the third time he raises his ngers over his friend’s
hand and gallops them down one after the other, until the last one, the one that
makes the trigger pull, and right as the sound blasts a st-sized hole through the
top of his head you realize that he’s made his ngertips into horse hooves, that
it’s still the cavalry taking a shot at him, and nally getting lucky.
The rie is angled away from you but the red mist of him rises, plumes over,
coats your face.
You wipe it o, don’t lick it away, then look back down the idea of the road,
to the cattle guard out there in the deep dark.
Now there’s only one left, one you just promised you wouldn’t go after.
Killing a calf is the worst of the worst, you know.
Beside it, breaking a promise is nothing, really.
Nothing at all.
MOCASSIN TELEGRAPH
Say we’re all in a John Wayne movie. Say your trusty reporter here has his ear pressed right down to the
railroad tracks, so he can listen up the future.
What am I hearing? you ask.
The bus tires of Havre leaving their parking lot for tonight’s big scrimmage with the girls, sure. But
you don’t need to be a real Indian to know the Blue Ponies are coming to town for a grudge match, to
prove that last year’s tournament win was due to skill, not injury.
No, you come to this column for the real dirt, don’t you? Let me dish. And,as always, you didn’t hear
it from me.
Word has it that a certain big-time college scout has been seen in blaze orange down at the diner.
Further word has it that, once his lunch schedule was established, it’s completely possible that a certain
coach may or may not have sidled up to his table, mentioned where the elk have been the last week or
two, and kind of, shall we say, bundled that tidbit in with a certain scrimmage going down tonight.
Supposedly, the trade was that if a certain scout bagged his trophy early enough in the day, well, that
would leave his evening free, wouldn’t it?
And, if he was free enough, why not come for the junior high game as well, right? You thought I was
talking about a certain high school coach, not the coach who wears her hair in two pigtails?
For shame.
Junior high coaches know as well as high school coaches that all the elk are bunched together up
towards Duck Lake all this week. The game wardens have been trying to scare them back over to the park,
or onto the old folks’ happy hunting grounds, but elk are elk, right?
This isn’t the Fish & Game column, though. This is what you won’t hear anywhere else, unless you
have your ear to the rail like me. Trust me, a certain junior high coach either has or hasn’t got a big-time
college scout out to watch her star player. You know the one. You’ve seen her after practice, smoking the
varsity girls and boys both? We’ve never had a player like her, niiksookowaks. This is history in the
making. I’ll be there, trying to read over the scout’s shoulder.
And, remember, you didn’t hear this from me.
IT CAME FROM THE REZ
SATURDAY
Denorah can tell the order the sweat lodgers got there last night.
Cassidy was rst, of course. It’s his place. He didn’t so much get there as just
never leave. Her dad was next, front tires cocked at what he tells her is a rakish
angle, like his truck just stopped there in the middle of some crazy slide and he
had to wait for all the dust to settle before kicking the door open, stepping
down, peeling out of his sunglasses one side ata time. After that dramatic or not
dramatic entrance had been Victor and Nathan Yellow Tail, the cop car nosed
right up to the re like claiming it for its own, its tracks in the snow showing
where it had to step o the sort-of road to get around all the trucks that thought
they were so important.
Last, this morning probably, when her shift was over, was Jolene, pulled up
right behind Cassidy’s old truck that used to be up on blocks but is at to the
ground now, like embarrassed about something it’s done.
None of the sweat lodgersare up and about yet. Denorah would think it was
for the usual reason—beer-after-ceremony, which her dad would have claimed
was “rehydration”—but then Victor’s car wouldn’t still be there. And no way
would Officer Yellow Tail let minor Nathan drink with her dad and Cassidy,
even if Cassidy’s nally settling down a little, according to Denorah’s mom.
“Hello?” Denorah says, still a good walk away from it all. She could have
screamed it if she wanted, she supposes. Near as she can tell, the place is dead
times two. Even the sweat lodge is collapsed, smoke and the lines of heat
blurring the air above it, the blankets and whatever smoldering, meaning it’s a
trash pit now. Next time, the sweat will be somewhere else.
It’s good Denorah’s mom didn’t see that smoke.
“I’m only letting you do this because that Crow from the grocery is there,”
she’d just told Denorah at the cattle guard, after conrming the presence of
Jolene’s truck. “I’ll be back in one hour, got it? You’re lucky I had to return this
to Mona.”
“This” was Mona’s casserole dish that had wended its way from Tre’s house
to Denorah’s, because Trina is always coming up this way to smoke cigarettes
with Mona in her new trailer. There’s an old bear that gets after the berry
bushes just down from the trailer in the spring, and Denorah’s mom is forever
talking about that—as she calls it—silly old bear. Silly or not, that bear is her
mom’s excuse for one more cigarette, one more pack, one more carton. It’s like
she’s the most willing prisoner in Mona’s little window nook thing, that
Denorah thinks looks like the cockpit of a spaceship, like the two of them are
plotting some big escape, once Denorah’s out of the house.
“One hour, right here,” Denorah said back to her mom.
It feels military, repeating commands back so there’s no confusion, but it
seems to result in less grief, so Denorah plays along.
Still standing at the cattle guard, Cassidy’s place either a ghost town or a
junkyard, no dogs even—no dogs?—Denorah looks back to the road for her
mom’s car. Past where the road ducks down to the right there’s just snow and
snow and more snow, though, and then the shimmer of the lake where her dad
told her one of his running buddies died, way back.
But her dad’s gota story for every place on the reservation, doesn’t he? If not
someone he used to run with in high school, then a coulee where he popped a
blacktail once, a ridge where he found a little pyramid of brass shells for a
bualo gun, a place he once saw a badger humping it across the grass, an eagle
dive-bombing it like it thought this was the biggest prairie dog ever.
When she was a girl Denorah had soaked every one of those stories up, and
then, later, her mom told her to be careful what she took for gospel. The dead
friend stories, though, Denorah still kind of believes those. Because it would be
bad luck to lie about that, she thinks, and her dad’s the kind of superstitious he
thinks nobody notices. Case in point: That day him and Ricky and Cassidy and
Lewis popped all those elk back in that section they weren’t supposed to be in,
the one down by the lake? He’s never mentioned that to her even once, even in
defense, even to give her the rest of the story, how it wasn’t like it sounds, the
story her stepdad told her isn’t the real story, isn’t the one with feet on the
ground and smoke in the air, bang bang bang. And the reason he hasn’t said
anything to her about it, she’s pretty sure, it’s because to talk about it out loud
would throw his sights o next time he was lining up on an illegal elk, those
being the only kind he can shoot anymore.
The same as he’s never told her his version of that elk massacre, he’s also
never told her how his friend died at the lake. Just that that’s where his body was.
To talk about what actually happened might get him in Death’s crosshairs, the
way he thinks. So, because he won’t speak directly about that story, she kind of
believes it, in spite of her mother’s warning. But still, her dad’s got to think of
that dead friend still, doesn’t he, even if he won’t talk about him out loud? How
could he not? Every time he’s out here to see Cassidy he probably stops halfway
across the cattle guard and looks back to Duck Lake. He says that when his other
dead friend Ricky found his lake-dead friend, Ricky got hauled into jail himself.
Not because he did it—everybody knew who did it—but because he’d had to
break into one of the summer people’s lake houses over there to call in about
that body, and the cops couldn’t look past a breaking-and-entering, not when
there was property damage.
It wasall part ofa lesson her dad was trying to impart, Denorah’s pretty sure,
which was why he was even talking about the whole thing at all, but she isn’t
sure if it was a warning against calling the cops or against nding a dead body.
Maybe both at once? Probably the idea was that when you see somebody dead
and oating like that, you just keep walking, let somebody else nd it, or
nobody.
She knows the joke about how Indians are crabs in a bucket, always pulling
down the one that’sabout to crawl out, but she thinks it’s more like they’re oldtime plow horses, all just walking straight down their own row, trying not to see
what’s going on right next to them.
Speaking of horses: Cassidy’s?
Last time she was out, her dad had let her sit up on that paint horse, the one
Jolene calls Calico, like a cat, but that was … was it last summer? Was Jolene
living here by then? Yeah, she was. That was when her dad was still calling her
Dolly, like the best joke ever, and Cassidy had even played along at rst, faking
like he had a beard—like, if his girlfriend was Dolly, that meant he was Kenny,
ha ha ha. It had been so stupid that it had been hard for Denorah not to smile
about it. The way they were fooling around so natural made her kind of see her
dad and Cassidy twenty yearsago. It had been a good day. But now the pensare
empty, the gate apping. Cassidy wouldn’t have sold his Indian ponies, though.
They’re probably grazing in some meadow, won’t trail back to the barn until
dark.
Also: Who cares?
Denorah’s here for forty dollars, not to conduct the Big Horse Poll and
Headcount.
She nods to herself about this and leans up the road, follows its loop around
and down, keeping to the ruts because the snow’s crusted hard and she doesn’t
need to hyperextend a knee before tonight’s game.
She’s almost to Jolene’s truck when the driver’s door opens and Jolene cocks
her right foot up on the duct-taped armrest, to tie a high-top tighter.
Her long hair blows out over her knee.
“Hey,” Denorah calls ahead, to keep from getting shot.
Jolene inches around, clears her hair from her face, from her blown-red
right eye, and she isn’t Jolene.
“Whoah,” Denorah says, stopping hard, looking around at everything all at
once, to be sure this is still Cassidy’s place.
Not-Jo snickers, keeps tying her laces.
“Who are you?” Denorah asks.
“Don’t worry,” Not-Jo says, “this isn’t a raiding party, little girl.”
“Little girl?”
“Young lady?” Not-Jo stands from the truck, sways her back in, extending
her arms to either side, wrists up, stretching. It’sa full-body yawn. She’s wearing
black gym shortsand a faded yellow T-shirt with the arms scissored o, the neck
cut out, maroon sports bra.
“Where’s Jolene?” Denorah says, not even trying to reel the accusation in.
“You’re Gabriel’s girl,” this woman says, angling her head over to study
Denorah. “You do look like him. That’s not an insult.”
“You’re Crow, aren’t you?” Denorah says.
“Your dad would have been pretty—I mean, if he was a girl,” the woman
says. “I’m Shaney, Shaney Holds. Jolene’s best cousin. Maybe the best cousin of
all time, jury’s still out on that one.”
“What are you doing here?”
“Getting interrogated by a kid?” this “Shaney” says with a smile, then reaches
importantly back into Jo’s truck and hauls out a basketball, claps it in front of
her like something’s starting.
“You play, right?” she says, passing the ball across to Denorah. “Your dad says
you’re pretty good.”
“Where is he, do you know?” Denorah says, casting around Cassidy’s place a
third time.
“Good luck with that,” Shaney says with a smile.
“What do you mean?”
“That kid … Nate?”
“Nathan Yellow Tail.”
“He heard the dogs bawling after something down that way,” Shaney says,
hooking her chin downhill to where the trees start. “His dad, that big cop guy,
he thought it would be all super-Indian if they rode horses down to check it
out.”
“My dad can ride?” Denorah says.
“Just glad they’re gone,” Shaney says. “I can’t shoot the ball when the horses
are in their pen. I think one of them’s gun shy or something, I don’t know. Gets
them all riled up. But, now that they’re gone …”
She opens her hand for the ball and Denorah underhands it back to her.
“Why’s the sweat lodge burning?” Denorah asks.
“They used plastic for the frame,” Shaney says with an amused shake of the
head. “It kind of melts in the heat, I guess? Whole thing collapsed in on the
rocks. They told me to watch it, make sure it doesn’t catch the grass.”
Denorah nods. That sounds about right for her dad.
“Even Nathan rode a horse?” she says, incredulous. “He’s always being all
gangster.”
“Two hundred years ago, the gangsters rode war ponies,” Shaney says, and
shuts the truck door with her hip. “Twenty-one till they get back? I want to see
if your dad was lying about what you can do out there.”
Denorah looks to the goal poking up from the grass maybe fteen yards to
the left of them, over from the outhouse. It’s a square, rotting-away backboard
nailed ush to a tribal utility pole—the kind of court where if you don’t slash in
from the baseline for a layup, then where you come down, it’s into a rake of
creosote splinters.
“Got a game this afternoon,” Denorah says.
Shaney nods, looks out to the grey trees, like for the men.
“You can hang in the camper if you’re cold,” she says. “Or sit in the truck. I
think they broke all the lawn chairs around the re last night.”
She’s right: the chair by the dead re is folded over, the one by the lodge is
bent in on itself, and the other is sideways, thrown out in the grass and snow.
“Did you play?” Denorah asks. “In high school, I mean.”
“I used to eat basketballs, little girl,” Shaney says, clapping the ball hard in
her hands, and Denorah knows right then she’s not sitting in any camper, she’s
not sitting behind the steering wheel of any truck.
“Maybe just twenty-one,” she says to Shaney. “Until they get back.”
“Sure your coach won’t mind?”
“Not if I play like I play, she won’t.”
“How old are you?” Shaney asks, the crow’s feet around her eyes crinkling
with amusement.
“How old are you?” Denorah says right back.
Shaney hooks her head for Denorah to fall in. Denorah does, and, turning
away from the drive, she sees that her dad’s windshield is caved in on the
passenger side. It stops her for a moment, but that could be anything. Knowing
him, he’s got six dierent stories cooking already for what happened, each more
epic and unbelievable than the last, none of them involving him being at fault.
The seventh story will probably be about how he needs this forty dollars
toward a new windshield. Does his Finals Girl want him to freeze, come
January?
Denorah follows the path Shaney’s picking through the hard snow. It’s rocks
and dry patches, but it gets them there without wet feet or bleeding shins.
Shaney bounces the ball high o the concrete and tracks it while working a
hair tie o her wrist, gathering her hair behind her neck. On the ball’s third
bounce she rabbits forward, snatches it on the way to the bucket, then stops on a
dime, fakes once, and goes up, executing a neat little fadeaway that banks in like
money.
“Your coach let you Reggie Miller your left foot out like that?” Denorah
says, down on one knee to retie her right shoe.
“Crow ball,” Shaney says. “What do y’all play up here? Big on the
fundamentals, all that boring-ass stu?”
Denorah switches to her other shoe, battens it down tight, making sure the
bows are even. Not because she’s superstitious but because it makes sense to
have them both the same.
“Done stalling yet?” Shaney says from the pole, and snaps a bounce pass
across.
Denorah has to stand fast to catch it at her stomach, keep it from slamming
into her face.
Shaney has her by six inches, she guesses. But tall girls are never the ball
handlers, at least not in small schools—not in reservation schools. Tall girls get
trained on boxing out, on rebounding, on posting up and setting screens, using
their hips and elbows. All of which a team needs to win, for sure. None of
which are much use one-on-one, which is a game of slashing, of stopping and
popping.
Denorah dribbles once to get the right feel for this ball, this court.
“Warm up?” Shaney says, bouncing in place.
Denorah snaps the ball back to her, says, “So you can clock my dominant
hand, my favorite place at the top of the key?”
Shaney chuckles, says, “There’s no key out here, little girl. Just you and me.”
“The Blackfeet and the Crow …” Denorah says.
“If that’s how you want to look at it,” Shaney says, stepping out to what
would be the free-throw line and waiting for Denorah to step into position in
front of her.
Denorah takes her time, won’t be rushed.
“Don’t want to wear you out for your big game or anything,” Shaney says
with a little bit of bite, dropping the ball in front of her for Denorah to check.
Denorah takes the ball in both hands, spins it back toward herself, and makes
a show of looking around, says, “What, there another baller out here I’m not
seeing?”
“Cocky, I like that,” Shaney says, taking the ball back. “Just like your dad.”
“Done stalling yet?” Denorah says, getting down in the stance, palms up,
tapping her forearms on the outside of her knees twice like activating Defense
Mode.
Shaney dribbles once, high by her right hip, and then turns around, giving
Denorah her ass, backing her down already, which is what you do when you
have a size advantage.
When you’re on the wrong end of that size game, though, then you can time
it out, stab an arm in, slap the ball away.
Denorah gives ground like she’s falling for this, then, the next time Shaney
goes for a bounce-against, the round of her back to Denorah’s chest, Denorah
steps back—pulling the chair out, Coach calls it—comes around with her right
hand, reaching in for that blur of orange leather.
Except Shaney wasn’t backing her down. She was baiting the trap.
What she does now is peel around the other way, her long legs giving her
what feels like an illegal rst step, and by the time she’s done with that step,
throwing the ball ahead of her in a dribble she’ll have to chase down, Denorah’s
already out of position, can just watch.
She’s never been spun on like this.
To make it worse, Shaney doesn’t just lay it in, either. She catches her dribble
in both hands, rocks her elbow out hard to the right, and plants one high-top on
the pole about chest-level and uses that to push higher, twisting in the air to
come around the right side, having to guide the ball around the net on the way,
like having to ght through the trees to get to the bucket.
She lays it in gentle with both hands, lands already jogging backward.
Fucking-A, Denorah knows her face has to be saying.
This might be a game.
THANKSGIVING CLASSIC
15–15, and Denorah isn’t having to run her yaway hair out of her face
anymore. Now it’s pasting to her skull with sweat.
She dribbles in hard to the left, Shaney bodying right up to her but not
tangling their feet somehow, and stops, makes to rise up, getting Shaney’s long
body into the air. It’s one of the only two strategies she’s found that are worth
anything against this tall, slashy defender. Trick is, long bodies stretched out,
they take longer to recoil back down, go a dierent direction.
Instead of letting her feet leave the ground, Denorah reels the ball back, both
hands because Shaney will slap it out into the snow again, and leans over to the
right, ducking ahead under Shaney’s already-coming-down arm.
Position, yes. When you’re outgunned, all you can do is whatever you have
to for position. Not that there’s a ref to blow a whistle, but even a Crow knows
that bringing an elbow down into the neck and shoulder of a player in the
motion of shooting, that’s a do-over.
Now Denorah lets her feet leave the ground, still exploding forward under
Shaney’s wingspan, and she teardrops the ball up and over, in, just enough soft
touch, because this bullshit plywood backboard isn’t trustworthy, not for
someone who hasn’t killed a thousand sundowns out here, the clock always
ticking its last three seconds down.
“Cheap …” Shaney calls out, just generally.
“Sixteen,” Denorah says back, collecting the rebound before the ball can get
slick in the snow.
She dribbles it slow back to the top edge of the court, bounces it across to
Shaney, who, Denorah’s satised to see, is nally breathing hard as well, her
mouth moving like she’s the kind of player who’s used to having a piece of gum
in her mouth. Or used to chewing cud, ha.
“How long you been playing?” Shaney asks. “Your dad never said.”
“Was born on a court,” Denorah says, Shaney lowering the ball right to the
concrete, rolling it slow between them, giving her time to crowd in.
“So this is what’s most important to you, right?” Shaney says. “Basketball?
Matters more than anything to you?”
Denorah xes Shaney in her eyes for a moment, like taking stock. “And you
think you can take it away from me?” she nally says. “That you can break my
pride before the game tonight? You a Blue Pony in disguise?”
“Home court advantage, little girl.”
“You’re far from home,” Denorah says, lowering into triple-threat, leading
with her face. In practice, Coach will put a big hand on Denorah’s forehead
while she slashes the ball back and forth and all around to pass, to shoot, to
dribble. Now Shaney does the same thing, her rough palm right between
Denorah’s eyebrows. It’s a violation, would be a foul in any game with a
whistle, but, too, it slows the whole world down, lets Denorah sort of see this
not from her triple-threat position, but from the side, in ledger art, like this
battle between the two of them is so epic that it’s been painted on the side of a
lodge, and inside that lodge, an old man with stubby-thin braids is recounting
the story of that one time the Girl played a game for the whole tribe. How each
dribble shook the ground so hard that over in the Park great mountainsides of
snow were calving o, rumbling down, shaving the foothills of trees. How each
time the ball arced up into the sky it was merging with the sun, so that when it
came down it was a comet almost, cutting through that orange circle of a rim.
How each juke was so convincing that the wind would come in to take that
player’s place but then would get all scrunched up because the player was
already back in that space, cutting the other way, her path as jagged and fast as a
bolt of lightning.
This win isn’t just for pride, Denorah tells herself, in order to push harder,
be faster, jump higher. It’s for her tribe, her people, it’s for every Blackfeet from
before, and after. “You don’t win today,” she says, speaking right into Shaney’s
wrist.
“And you do?” Shaney says back, getting light on her feet for what she must
think Denorah’s move is about to be.
“I am,” Denorah says, and pushes hard with her forehead, nudging Shaney
back just enough to clear some space.
She uses it to launch up and back, up and back. It’s improper form, is even
poor practice, as it’s nearly impossible to replicate all the variables of a fallaway
like this, but you can’t always go by the textbook, either. Some games, you are
Reggie Miller. And, if you’re really good, you’re maybe even Cheryl.
Denorah rises and rises, falling back at the same time, Shaney lowering her
arms to swing them up together, extend enough to block this shot, but that
smidge of time it takes to lower and jump, gather and push up, it gives Denorah
just enough window to release the ball through.
Still, because of Shaney’s length, Denorah has to adjust at the last instant, arc
the shot even higher than she’d wanted, make it even more of a prayer.
It just clears Shaney’s ngertips.
Denorah lands on her ass in the snow a full second before the ball catches the
front of the rim, shudders the whole thing, and then—bounce, bounce, jigglejaggle—it drops through. Denorah rolls over three times in celebration, snow
and dry grass all over her. She’s spent more hours on the court than o, she’d
bet, and played against girls her age and older, guys, too, on Sunday nights
when the gym’s open, she’s even had the ball at the end of the game more than
anybody on her team, but still, this shot, this one lucky roll, it’s better than any
of the rest of them.
“Two,” she calls out, because that’s how they’ve been playing, and Shaney’s
pissed enough she rips the hair tie from her ponytail, runs to the edge of the
concrete to throw it as far as she can. It’s a scrunchy, though. Too much air
resistance. It utters, dies, doesn’t go anywhere.
“You can’t beat me,” she says—growls, really.
“Eighteen,” Denorah says, standing, keeping a close eye on Shaney.
Riled up like she is, there’s something almostanimal about her. In a game it’s
the kind of thing Denorah could use to get to the free-throw line. Out here
miles from anybody, it’s more likely to earn her an elbow in her ribs.
It’ll just mean she’s winning the real game, though.
Shaney gives her the ball, bodies up close enough that Denorah gets a bug’seye view of her knitted-together, scarred-up forehead, and Denorah fakes back
like to repeat that Hail Mary fallaway but Shaney doesn’t take the bait, isall over
her when she puts the ball down to drive.
Still, Denorah gets the step—you can always get the step, if you want it bad
enough—runs the ball as far out in front of her as she can to ip it up at the last
possible moment before her next foot touches the ground.
It’s pretty, and it’s on target, but Shaney’s been on this ball since the moment
she checked it. She doesn’t just slap it down, either, she smothers it, she collects
it, she wraps around it like a fullback, falls hard enough back into the pole that
rotted wood from the backboard rains down over her.
She waves it away from her face, shakes the pain o, her hair almost
completely hiding her face now, her teeth ashing in that black shroud.
“You all right?” Denorah says.
“Check,” Shaney says, leaving the ball behind her as if disgusted by it.
Denorah uses the toe of her right shoe to ip it up to her hands, a move
Coach would be all over—hands, hands, basketball players use hands—and, on
the way to the top of the key she chances a look back to the dead re, the
smoldering lodge, the horse pens, all the empty trucks. The camper, the
outhouse. The whole reservation as backdrop.
“Where are they?” she says, kind of just out loud.
“They’re not going to save you, little girl,” Shaney says, already in her place.
Not even a dog has made it back, though? And what happened to the
windshield of her dad’s truck?
“I’m not a little girl,” Denorah says.
Shaney starts to say something about this but swallows it.
“My mom’s coming back by in about fteen minutes,” Denorah adds.
“She can play winner, then,” Shaney says, clapping twice for the ball.
Denorah rolls the ball to her slow enough that the lines don’t even blur.
Shaney snatches it up the moment it’s close enough, follows through on that
forward dip of her body, twitches ahead like enough with the bullshit nesse,
this time she’s going through Denorah.
Because she can’t get too banged up for the other game she’s playing today,
Denorah inches back, ready to give ground, sacrice a point to save her body,
but then at the last moment Shaney breaks right, the exact same move Denorah
just used on her: get the rst step, then stretch out, ip it in.
The reason it didn’t work for Denorah was Shaney’s length, which Denorah
doesn’t have.
One blurry dribble and then Shaney’s ipping the ball up.
It catches the backboard high and comes down slow, ushes down and
through, the net popping up behind it exactly like an old man’s lips after he’s
leaned over to spit.
“Good one,” Denorah says, chocking the ball under her arm.
Her legs are trembling, spent, her lungs raw, her heart beating in her
temples. This is no way to prepare for tonight’s game. Still, if her mom’s car
crests over the cattle guard, she’s going to hold her hand out, tell her to wait,
she’s got to nish this.
Forty dollars or not, right here’s where the real money is.
“Sixteen–eighteen,” Shaney says.
“Give up now, you want,” Denorah says back. “There’s no shame. I’m
younger, faster, play every day. You’ve taken this farther than anyone else would
have.”
Shaney laughs at this.
“You should probably be asleep now anyway,” Denorah says, “right? Or you
and Jo on dierent schedules or something?”
“I slept for ten years,” Shaney says back.
After a breath to make sense of this, to not make sense of this—she didn’t step
on a court for a whole decade, and can still play like this?—Denorah bounces
the ball across.
Because she’s winded, Shaney takes the ball up into the Crow version of
triple-threat, which more and more Denorah’s thinking might actually be some
sort of quadruple-threat, and turns around to back her defender down,
probably muscle her back at the end of that, fall back on one leg, bank it in. Not
showy, but, if there’s no three-second violations, generally eective in one-onone like this.
But now Denorah knows not to try to reach around, slap the ball. That’s
what Shaney’s waiting for. Probably she’s just acting spent, is really ready to
spin o Denorah, go up and under, lay it in.
Denorah thins her lips, shows her teeth where Shaney can’t see, and shakes
her head no to the chance of that happening. Not on this defender. Not in this
game.
Still, when Shaney bounces back into her, she can’t help but give six inches, a
foot.
Again, again.
Denorah steps in to regain ground, leading with her hips now because
Coach says that’s where women are most solid, and when Shaney’s hair is in her
mouth she spits it out but doesn’t raise a hand to guide the strands out, because
being grossed out doesn’t matter, not when a point’s at stake.
Except—
There’s something wet on Denorah’s chin?
Now she does raise the back of her hand, to wipe at it.
Blood?
Did she bite her tongue? Bust a lip?
No.
She backs o a full foot, to study Shaney’s back.
“Hey,” she says, stopping the game. “You’re bleeding.”
The whole back of Shaney’s pale yellow shirt is red and dripping, her hair all
matted in it.
“When you hit the pole that last time,” Denorah adds.
Shaney keeps dribbling, the ball a metronome. Her face shrouded under her
everywhere hair.
“We’re playing,” she says.
“But—”
Shaney spinsagainst nothing, is playing mad now, is up againstan imaginary
defender.
She slashes past Denorah, is already pulling the ball up under her arm and
behind her like protecting it for a bust-through, and, because she can, because
she hasn’t been in this backed-o of a position yet, Denorah reaches an easy
hand out, slaps the ball from around Shaney’s back, doesn’t even have to shift
her feet.
It’s not a defensive move, it’s a time-out.
The ball rolls o Shaney’s knee, out into the crunchy grass and snow.
Shaney, her momentum already gathered, has no choice but to keep surging
forward. For the second time in as many plays she slams into the utility pole,
shaking the janky backboard, more splinters and bird-nest trash sifting down.
Denorah steps out of that bad rain, clocks Shaney coming down hard and
awkward righton her back, like somebody cut her legs out from under while she
was up there walking on air.
She ips over fast, onto her palms and toes, and then she rolls her shoulders
slow, her hair all around her face, and screams straight down into the concrete,
screams for longer than her lungs should have air for.
Denorah turns her head, like studying this from a slightly dierent angle can
make it make sense.
“Hey, hey, are you all—” she tries, leaning ahead with her hand open like to
help, but now Shaney is standing in her easy, athletic way, her body loose and
dangerous again.
She guides the hair out of her face and … her eyes. They’re dierent. They’re
yellowy now, with hazel striations radiating out from the deep black hole of a
pupil. Worse, her eyes are too big for her face now.
Denorah falls back, sits on the concrete with maybe half her weight, the rest
on her ngertips.
She’s not making the game tonight, she knows.
“What—what are you?” she says, breathing hard from fear now, not
exertion.
“I’m the end of the game, little girl,” Shaney says, then twitches her head
around, stares hard at Cassidy’s camper.
Dad? Denorah says deep inside, her heart uttering with hope.
She looks to the right, trying to will three or four horsemen up from the grey
trees, dogs weaving ahead of them.
There’s nothing.
“The end of your game, anyway,” Shaney goes on.
“Why are you doing this?” Denorah says, her voice getting more shaky at the
end than she planned.
“Ask your father,” Shaney says right back, still watching whatever she’s
watching over at the camper, or the sweat, or the cop car.
“My dad? Why? What did he do? He doesn’t even know you.”
“We met ten years ago. He had a gun. I didn’t.”
To prove it she whips her hair away from her melty forehead, leans forward
so Denorah can take a long look.
“He … he wouldn’t—”
“Shouldn’t, wouldn’t,” Shaney says. “Did.”
“Just—just let me go,” Denorah says. “You win, okay? We can … this is
between you and him, then, right? Why do you even need me?”
Shaney settles her weird eyes back on Denorah.
“You’re his calf,” she says, like that explains anything.
“You’re not really Crow, are you?” Denorah says.
“Elk,” Shaney says back with a grin.
“My mom’s on the way,” Denorah says.
“Good,” Shaney says back.
Denorah stares at her about this.
“What if I win?” she nally says.
“You won’t,” Shaney says. “You can’t.”
“I was,” Denorah says. “I am. Eighteen-sixteen.”
Denorah stands, staring into Shaney’s nightmare face the whole time.
“I don’t care what you are,” she says. “When you’re on this court, you’re
mine.”
“And that’s precisely what I’m here to take away from you,” Shaney says
back. “Before I take everything else.”
Denorah gives Shaney her back, steps out into the snow to collect the ball,
comes back to the pad of concrete, and cleans the soles of her shoes on the
opposite legs of her shorts.
“My ball, right?” she says.
Shaney doesn’t say yes and doesn’t say no, just takes the check pass.
Denorah walks to her place facing the goal, says, “It’s my ball, and”—
pointing with her lips—“I’m putting it right there, and there’s not one single
thing you can do about it.”
This is word for word what her dad used to tell her when she was a kid and
they were playing in her granddad’s driveway, when she could hardly even hold
the ball, when he would have to scoop her up under the arms at the last
moment of the layup, hold her up to the basket.
But sometimes he’d set her up in defensive position, get loose in the
shoulders, his head rocking back and forth, and look up to the goal, tell her he
was going to put it right there, and there’s nothing Denorah can do about it.
Which is where it all started, she knows.
“What’s wrong with your back?” Denorah says, catching Shaney’s rolled ball
under the sole of her right shoe.
“I’m dying,” Shaney says, easy and obvious as anything.
“Serious?”
“But not yet, don’t worry.”
Denorah isn’t sure what to make of this so she just looks to the opposite two
corners of the court like conrming with her teammates, and then she feels her
mouth curl into her dad’s reckless smile. Whatever this is, it’s about to happen.
Shaney, whatever she is—some Indian demon from way back, some monster
her dad found buried on some hill out here, a ghost woman he left in a rolledover car—she steps in, gets down into defensive stance, her long ngers ready,
her teeth showing.
Denorah turns to the side, dribbling with her left and taking stock, and in
her head she says a silent apology to Coach, for the move she’s about to try.
One thing about Coach, she does believe in the fundamentals. Nothing
fancy, nothing showy. Three times already this season Denorah’s been benched
for showing o. Once it was for circling the ball around her waist before a layup
on a breakaway, never mind that the crowd all came to their feet for that.
Another time it was for passing between a defender’s legs, which made that girl
mad enough that she ended up getting kicked out a quarter later.
The third time Coach benched Denorah, it was for dribbling behind her
back when there was no advantage to do it. Coach had been right, too—it had
been completely for show, for joy, had been one hundred percent because
Denorah could.
Never mind that she almost lost the ball, had to step long to keep up with it.
Alone on the little court at her house, though, she’s been practicing a new
move.
About a third of the time, with no defender, when she’s holding her mouth
just right and the wind’s in her favor, she can stick it.
Okay, one time so far she’s sort of nailed it. Everything but the actual shot at
the end.
Still, “Bet they didn’t teach this at elk school,” she says, and then, before
Shaney can react—using that moment of confusion—she ips the ball around
her left hip with her right hand, more a bullet pass than a real dribble, one she
has to hula her hips forward a smidge to allow.
The ball bounces once with her serious English on it and then it’s beelining
for the right corner of the concrete pad and Denorah is already in motion,
diving for it, her body blocking Shaney out behind her. Two out of every three
times she’s done this at home—okay, nineteen out of twenty—she can’t catch
the ball, has to run her eort o in the grass and snow. It’s nearly impossible to
catch it, much less turn it back toward the bucket. It’s a move Coach would
have outlawed for sure if she’d ever seen it. It’s a move the crowd would shake
the roof o the gym for, if they ever saw it. More important, it’s a move that’ll
break the heart ofany defender, Denorah knows. More important than that, it’s
the very last arrow in her quiver, and it’s already slashing across the court, is
going to bounce out of bounds if Denorah doesn’t—
She just gets her ngertips to that spinning-away leather, Shaney so close that
her hair is coming around Denorah’s own face. Committing all of her weight
and muscle and hope, cashing in every hour she’s spent sweating it out in
practice, Denorah pulls that ball tight to her ribs, hands clamped hard to each
side so it can’t be poked away, and turns on the ball of her left foot, her right
shoe already coming up, and up.
She’s too close already, though. This court is so small. The burst of speed she
needed to catch up with the ball, it’s left her already under the basket, where the
only thing she can do is the rst thing Shaney did to her: plant that right shoe as
high up the utility pole as she can, wait for her weight to collect behind it. It
gives her enough grip for the sole of her shoe to stick when she pushes o, when
she forces her already-twisting body up into the air, the net scratchy against her
face, her mouth open not in a scream but a war cry, her face full of Shaney’s hair
because she’s right there, is coming up with Denorah, is going to slap this one
down no matter how high Denorah climbs.
The only thing Denorah can do, her only hope, it’s to extend the ball as far
from her body as possible now, around Shaney’s side where any defender would
least expect it, meaning Denorah’s one-handing it now, has just enough grip to
spin it up, kiss it soft o the other side of the board, and then she’s falling away,
is falling for miles, back into legend.
The concrete jars her from tailbone to neck, leaves her spitting tongue blood
and cheek gristle, but still she sees the ball slip through neat asanything, a pretty
little reverse by a player who shouldn’teven have that kind of reach, that kind of
vertical, that kind of English.
It’s about heart, though, Coach is always saying.
When Denorah smiles, she’s sure her teeth are red.
“Nineteen,” she says, chocking her face up like does Shaney have anything to
say about that, and then she cringes away all at once, from … from—
From splinters in the air?
And sound. Her head is full of it.
A gunshot.
She looks up to where Shaney is glaring.
Cassidy’s camper.
No, the outhouse.
Victor Yellow Tail is wavering a few feet from it, the door open behind him,
his whole front soaked in blood, a pistol ashing in his right hand.
What he just shot was the utility pole.
The backboard is raining more of its rotted wood down.
Shaney bares her teeth, her whole body quivering.
“I killed you,” she says across to Victor.
“Where’s my son!” Victor loud-whispers back—no throat to speak with—
and loosely aims the pistol again, shoots.
This time the concrete in front of Shaney chips up. Her leg snaps back and
away and Denorah can tell she wants to explode away from this spot, run and
run, be miles away.
Now Victor’s falling to his knees with the eort of shooting, of screaming, of
bleeding so much. But he’s still pointing that drooping pistol ahead of him.
Shaney turns her head to the side like he better not, but he pulls the trigger.
This shot catches her in the right shoulder, ings her o the court, into the
frozen grass and snow.
Denorah stands, doesn’t know what to do.
Instead of just lying there and hurting, like would make sense, Shaney is
opping and writhing in the snow, screaming from the pain, the ngers of her
left hand digging into her shoulder, and … and: no.
Her face.
Her head.
She arches back, her ngers deep in the meatand muscle of her shoulder, and
her face is elongating from the strain.
Her cheeks and chin tear with a wet sound and the bones crunch, resettling.
At the end of it her long hair is blowing away from her, isn’t connected to
her scalp anymore, and her face, it’s, she’s, her face is—
Not a horse, which is what Denorah thinks at rst.
Not a horse, an elk.
Elk Head Woman.
Denorah falls away, stands again, knows only to run, to leave, to not be here
for whatever’s next.
Where she runs is straight to Victor, the cop, the one with the gun.
She slides to her knees in front of him, grabs on to him, and his right hand
falls across her back, the pistol hot at the base of her spine.
“Na-Na-Nate,” he manages to say.
“What is she?” Denorah says, crying, holding so tight on to his bloody shirt,
but then with his left hand he guides her away from him, pushes her behind.
Elk Head Woman is standing, is walking this way, her ungainly head turned
to the side to better see them with her right eye.
“Go,” Victor whispers to Denorah, “run,” and she does, on all fours mostly,
and when Victor’s pistol res again she falls ahead from just the massive cracking
sound of it, and where she falls, it’s into the smoldering lodge.
It’s a pit of bodies.
The rst she sees is a dog, mouth open, eyes staring at nothing.
She pushes away, trying to climb out, and then it’s Cassidy, his face caved in
and half burned away.
Denorah screams, can’t breathe, can’t do anything.
The hair in her hand is, it’s—this is her dad.
She opens her mouth, doesn’t have any sound left.
Behind her and all around her then, Victor screams through his bloody
throat from whatever Elk Head Woman is doing to him.
Denorah rolls around, sees just grey sky above her, and then her right palm
ndsan ember. She snaps her hand back, holds it to her chest, and, just working
on automatic, on instinct, ghts her way up from the lodge, her knees and
clothes and all of her sticky with ash and gore.
On the other side of the lodge, through the scrim of smoke but staring right
through it, is Elk Head Woman.
“You killed them all!” Denorah screams through the smoke, holding her
right hand with her left. “You killed my … my—”
Instead of answering—her mouth is no longer shaped for human words—
Elk Head Woman steps forward, over what’s left of Victor’s broken body, his
head just hanging by tendons now, and the way she looks down to get her feet
in the right place, it’s because her eyes are on either side of her head now.
Denorah steps back, falls down, comes up already running.
In practice, there’s a drill Coach makes the team do maybe once a week.
More than that would leave them too beat-up to play. But, once a week, she’ll
line all the girls up on the baseline and step in among them, the ball rocked back
to let loose.
The whole time before she blows that whistle, too, she’s yelling to them like a
drill sergeant, asking, How bad do you want it? How bad do you want it?
At the end ofa game or the beginning, it doesn’t matter, it’s never the fastest
or the strongest player who gets that rolling-away ball. It’s whatever girl dives
the hardest. Whoever ghts for it. Whoever doesn’t let anybody take it away.
Whoever doesn’t care about their precious hair or skin or teeth. It’s all about
whoever wants it the worst.
This is the drill Denorah’s running right now.
Only, this time it’s no drill.
ONE LITTLE INDIAN
The rst place Denorah’s going is Mona’s. If she can cut across, nd the road,
it’ll take her right to Mona’s trailer, and, and, and maybe that old bear will be
there, maybe he never went to sleep this winter, maybe he’ll smell an elk and
stand up, forget about waiting those berries out.
It’s a good plan—it’s a stupid, stupid plan—until, maybe a mile out, her
lungs raw, her shins bloody from how hard the snow’s crusted, her feet soaking
wet and numb forever, Denorah runs right up to the lip of a drop that’s
probably a hundred rocky feet down.
The wind coming up it pushes her back, saves her life.
Down at the way-bottom there’s an old broken-down corral and a stone
something, but nobody’s lived down there for eighty, a hundred years. This is
one of those far-out allotments that somebody tried to make work, but
Blackfeet aren’t farmers, Blackfeet aren’t ranchers.
“Nooo!” Denorah screams down into that big empty space she can’t cross.
She looks back like she’s been telling herself not to, and maybe a quarter mile
back, not even that, it looks at rst like a horse is cresting the rise. Her heart
swells, thinking it’s her dad on one of Cassidy’s horses, but that was a lie, the
men never went down to see what the dogs had tied into, the dogs were already
dead by then, they all were.
And this still isn’t a horse head.
It’s Shaney, whatever she is. Elk Head Woman.
She walks forward, has human shoulders, a woman’s arms, one arm red from
all the blood coming down from her shoulder. Long gym shorts and tall socks.
Wide eyes xed right on Denorah.
“Why won’t you even run!” Denorah yells back.
Elk Head Woman just keeps coming.
Denorah bounces on her feet, her back to that long drop, and looks left and
right, her only two choices.
Right is more of the same: what looks like snow forever, all the way over to
the Park, but with coulees gouging through deep and sudden. Left is that same
snow for maybe a mile, but then there’s the lake out that way. The one her dad’s
friend drowned in, or whatever. And—and that’s where his other friend got
arrested—
“Oh yeah,” Denorah says.
There’s lake houses over on the shore. Cabins with steep roofs and canoes
lashed to the porch across the door, like that would really keep anybody out.
Her dad’s friend Ricky had broken into one to report that body oating
facedown in the water—to call and report a body in the water.
Meaning: a phone.
Denorah can call Mona’s from there, she can call the Game Oce, her dad,
her new dad, she can report the massacre, report an ocer very, very down.
Denorah looks back to Elk Head Woman, gone again, slogging through the
deep snow that’s between the rises—she only walks in a straight line, like
following a ridge would be undignied, would be the land making her do
something.
Picking her foot placements as carefully as she can, so she’s walking where
the wind’s scoured the snow away, Denorah goes left and keeps low, always
picking the side of the brush that threatens to drop her down the cli instead of
the other side, where she can be seen.
She remembers some grade school teacher talking about how Indians having
long hair—it was Miss Grace, a French-accented blond woman from Canada—
how long hair, it helped with hunting. When hanging down, it wavered back
and forth like grass, and it hid the recognizable human features.
It had been bullshit, of course—hair isn’t grass, facesare faces—but Denorah
has never forgotten it, either.
Running now, half certain that Elk Head Woman anticipated which
direction her prey would take, is cutting across on the diagonal, is about to step
over this rise right here, Denorah hooks a nger into the tail of her braid and
runs the band o, combs the rest free with her ngers.
In her head she’s practicing what she’s going to say into the phone.
My dad, Cassidy, she killed them all, you’ve got to—
No. Start with Victor.
Your … your cop, your officer, Nathan Yellow Tail’s dad, he tried shooting her
but she … she—
Also: Her back is already hurt. That’s where you need to shoot her If you shoot
her from the front she’ll just pull the bullet back out.
Like she’s even going to get to call. Like she can even make it the two more
miles to the lake. Like she’s not going to fall one too many times, roll over, nd
Elk Head Woman standing over her.
Why would a phone even still be hooked up out there over winter?
But where else is there to go?
Denorah shakes her head, her hair down now.
She imagines Coach behind her, blowing the whistle.
The next time she looks back, there’s no elk head cresting. It doesn’t mean
anything, she tells herself.
Run, run.
She does, harder, and it’s good that she does. This time when she looks back,
Elk Head Woman is right there, maybe forty yards back.
She stops, turns her head to the side to get Denorah in one of her big eyes.
“I beat you,” Denorah mutters, not even close to loud enough, and forces
herself up a steep rise, comes over it at a shamble, into … into—
Somebody’s old place. A ramshackle house low to the ground, all the
windows gone, the walls peeling away. Two old hatchbacks left where they died,
it looks like. A barn or shop that’s blown over except one corner. The only
structures still standing, not caring about the wind and snow and loneliness, are
three rusted-purple boxcars parked nose to tail, the kind people use for storage,
the kind her stepdad recommendsall around the reservation since they’re about
the only thing bears can’t get into. Whoever set them up here was playing with a
big train set, it looks like—no, of course: they were trying to get a snowbreak
going. Giving the snow something to drift against, to keep it from building up
against the house, but these boxcars are train-tall, too, are sitting on blocks or
actual wheels or something.
“Hello!” Denorah yells down to the place, but it’s obviously abandoned.
And, is she hearing footsteps behind her? Hoofsteps?
She surges downhill, sliding on her butt and the heels of her hands over and
over. When she looks back this time, Elk Head Woman is walking a straight line
down the hill, not slipping even once, because elk always know where the
foothold will be.
Denorah turns, frantic, considers trying to stay on the other side of one of
the hatchbacks, always moving to the front when Elk Head Woman comes
around the back, but all it takes to lose that game is one good trip. And the
house, going in there she’d just dead-end in a bedroom, die there when Elk
Head Woman lled the doorway.
Denorah shakes her head no, there’s nothing for her here. This is just a place
to run through. She does, deciding at the last moment that burrowing down
under the middle boxcar might slow Elk Head Woman down. If she only walks
in straight lines, maybe she doesn’t bend over to go under things, either, right?
It’s as good a guess as anything.
Denorah slashes forward, Elk Head Woman only two car lengths behind
now, and forces herself through the wind-scoured crust of snow packed
between … probably not wheels, but it doesn’t matter.
Immediately she regrets closing herself in like this, and panics hard, digging
with her hands, kicking with her legs until she surges ahead into … a dry cave
under this boxcar. A magic kind of place. So quiet but not quite dark: the
sunlight’s seeped in through the thousand-million crystals of snow packed all
around her, making the walls glow blue like ice.
Not a cave, she tells herself, though. A tomb. A grave.
She gathers her will and pushes into the far blue wall, takes a deep breath to
push through, but then each sidearm of snow she sweeps away, ready to break
into open air, there’s just more snow, and more snow. She gasps her lungs
empty, tries to suck a breath in but there’s only snow everywhere, in her mouth.
She gags, bucks, gets her feet under her as best she can and just pushes. Into
more snow.
But her hand, it’s through, it’s out there.
She’s swimming now, swimming up through a slushee, not quite surfacing
but pulling enough crusted snow down that a sort of sinkhole to the sky opens
above her. Her mouth at the bottom of that funnel, she draws as much air in as
she can. And again.
Like whoever put the box cars there planned, and like she didn’t think to
anticipate, the snow on this is drifted deep-deep, and sloped out for probably
thirty feet.
Denorah trudges out through it, the crust cutting into her neck, then her
chest, then her stomach, thighs, shins.
On level ground at last, she lowers herself to her ngertips, shakes her hair
out of the way, and looks back through the chasm she just made, that’ll probably
hold for a few more minutes yet.
Elk Head Woman’s high-tops and tall socks are there through the opening,
blurry through the wall of icy snow on the other side. But they’re not moving.
For the rst time, they’re not moving.
What? Denorah says to herself.
She stands, ready to run, but then doesn’t. She looks through again.
Elk Head Woman’s high-tops and socks again. Still.
“What the hell?” Denorah says, looking left and right to be sure this isn’t a
trick, that Elk Head Woman isn’t coming around either side.
Has … did Shaney get stupid when her head went all elk? Is she acting like an
elk now more than a person?
Denorah stares at the backside of the drift she just clawed up from.
Jutting up from it, to the roof of the boxcar, is the built-on ladder.
This is what smart girls do, she tells herself. When the killer’s right on their
tail, they run up to someplace they can’t get down from.
But she has to see. She has to know.
Denorah nods to herself, nods again, then backs up and rushes ahead, to run
up the side of the icy drift, clamp a hand onto that lowest rung.
She makes it three steps before the drift swallows her whole for a second
time.
Ten sputtery seconds later she bursts up through the drift partway up the
ladder, stabs a hand up one rung higher, pulls herself free.
She clambers to the top, hooks a leg over, and just tries to breathe.
She’s wet head to toe now, which isn’t wonderful.
It’s windier up here, too. Of course.
Denorah hugs herself and inches forward, being sure of each footstep before
giving it the rest of her weight. She does not need to fall through, into whatever
got left behind in this boxcar.
The last four feetare on her stomach, her hair coiled in her hand so it doesn’t
blow over the edge ahead of her, give her away.
Elk Head Woman is just standing there, her ungainly head cocked a bit to the
side, the boxcar locked in her glare.
Denorah smiles.
You’re afraid of trains, she doesn’t say out loud.
But it’s true.
Elk, which is what Elk Head Woman must be in there somewhere, maybe
more and more with each step, they’re train-shy. Her dad told her this. It was a
story from one of his great-uncles, about how once all the men in town had
backed a herd of elk up to the tracks, blown them away when the train came.
They hadn’t meant to use the train asa fence, were just using it for sound cover
since they weren’t supposed to be shooting in town, but it had turned into a
fence all the same. The one or two elk that got away, her dad said, had told the
rest the Truth About Trains, and that was that, no more using train tracks to
hunt.
Evidently trains themselves are even scarier, never mind that there’s no
wheels on this train. Never mind that the cars aren’t even actually connected.
Never mind that there aren’t any tracks.
Elk might be tough and fast, Denorah gures, but they don’t seem to be the
best problem-solvers. Still, it’s not going to take Elk Head Woman forever to
gure out that this train is only three cars long, and not making any sparks, not
lling the world with sound.
Elk Head Woman opens her mouth and a low bleat eeks out, like testing this
situation, like announcing her uncertainty, like asking the herd for help here.
When none comes she steps back, like the train trance she’s in is losing a bit of its
grip.
Denorah turns, crawls back to the ladder, hand-over-hands it down into the
drift, kicks out the other side, walking her previous churned-up path.
Still no Elk Head Woman.
“Choo-choo, crazy lady,” Denorah says, tossing a middle-nger salute o her
forehead—another thing she learned from her dad, every time they’d just passed
a cop.
The lake, she’s saying inside.
She can make Duck Lake now.
The one time she looks back, there’s no Elk Head Woman rounding either
side of the boxcars. But there will be, she knows. There will be.
Denorah quickens her pace.
BLOOD-CLOT BOY
She should have crossed the dirt road she needs ten minutes ago, Denorah
knows. Twenty.
It’s like—it’s like all the roads are gone. Like the reservation’s dialed back a
hundred years, to before cars. Like that broken-down corral back there, like it’s
probably still standing, has a stone house beside it now, smoke curling up from
the chimney.
Either that or Denorah’s a town girl, knows every inch of the basketball
court, but the ungreat outdoors? Not so much.
One tree is the same as the next. All this snow looks like all the rest of the
snow.
The lake, though.
Every few hundred yards she’ll work her way up a rise, see it shimmering in
the distance.
What time does it get dark? Four?
Coach is going to ip when her star player doesn’t show up an hour before
the game. But that’s good. Wait, no: That doesn’t matter. By then Denorah’s
mom will have called in the National Guard, probably. She’ll have walked up
Cassidy’s long driveway, found all the bodies burning, seen the blood splashed
on the court, found Victor Yellow Tail over by the outhouse, killed twice.
And … and there are tracks in the snow, aren’t there? Denorah looks behind
her to be sure.
Hopefully Elk Head Woman is still stuck on the wrong side of that ghost
train. But: Don’t count on that, Denorah tells herself. Elk Head Woman’s got
to be close already. Don’t look now. Okay, don’t look again, and again.
Denorah sags to her knees, makes herself push up, push on.
Her rst wind was spent before Cassidy’s camper was even out of sight. Her
second wind didn’t even register. She’s going on pure need to survive now.
Need to survive and the conditioning Coach is always saying can decide a game.
All that plus a little hope: the lake houses.
Maybe some crazy hermit of an ice sherman is down there, snowed in.
Maybe some of the high schoolers have broken into one of the cabins like
always, are partying this weekend. Denorah can … she can take one of their
snowmobiles, tear out of there, run for Canada.
Are there any train tracks between here and there? She’s not counting on
bears to save her anymore, but train tracks.
Run, run, she tells herself.
Last three seconds of the game, push. And again.
Her lungs aren’t burning anymore, they’re cold, and there’s blood in the
back of her throat she’s pretty sure, what Coach calls lung cheese. But Denorah
should have blown all that out two months ago, when practice started. And
she’s lactose-intolerant anyway, she says about the lung cheese, trying to make a
joke out of it. The saddest, most-alone joke.
She breathesa long hair down her throatand has to stop to cough it up, puke
a little besides.
She’s not going to make it.
Is the lake still the same distance away? It can’t be.
Denorah closes her eyes tight to reset, to nd herself in all this pain, all this
cold. Distantly, like it’s someone else, she’s aware that she’s on her knees, that
her hands are over her face.
The road has to be up here somewhere. It will be up here.
What’s happening is that she’s thinking like she’s in a car, where distance goes
by fast. But she’s on frozen wet feet, and not taking anything even close to a
straight line, and the road does swerve the other way anyway. She’s probably just
coming in above that bend, meaning the road will be farther.
Don’t panic, girl. Gather the ball, collect your wits, and check the time clock.
Denorah lowers her hands, looks up to the hazy sun.
At least three hours left, she decides. Three hours before Elk Head Woman is
stepping out of every darkness, which will be all there is.
But you’ll be dead long before then, she reminds herself, and brings her face
down. To a long brown face watching her from maybe twenty feet ahead, just
behind the next rise.
Denorah knows not to inch back, knows better than to scream, but still,
inside, all her big plans are falling o their imsy metal shelves, clattering down
into the pit of her stomach.
This is it, then.
Denorah stands, her hair lifting all around her, her hands opening and
closing by her thigh because she’s about to be gouging eyes and tearing ears,
whatever she can get to—you come at a reservation girl, bring a box of BandAids—but then … then—
It’s a buck. A mule deer. She knows because back when she still had to stand
up on the seat of her dad’s truck to see over the dash, he taught her how to tell
mulies and whitetails apart. It’s size, sure, and how their racks are shaped if
they’re male, but before all that, it’s color. Mule deer are dusky brown for life
out here on the ats, and they don’t have white rings around their mouth and
nose so much, and, according to her dad, they taste better, but color’s an easier
tell than running one down, taking a bite.
This one’s just staring at Denorah with his big black-marble eyes. Waiting to
see what she is, his tail twitching out the seconds.
And then he’s looking past her. Behind her.
“No …” Denorah says, turning around all the same.
Elk Head Woman, plowing ahead, leading with her wide forehead.
Denorah turns back to tell the mulie to go but he’s already gone, running
down some frozen creek bed, probably—yep: on cue he bounds up like o a
hidden trampoline, oats for a span of ground Denorah is completely jealous
of. The instant he hits the ground his hooves are already digging in, churning
him forward.
“Hit it, brother,” she says, and urges her own self forward as well.
She’s got maybe a quarter mile of space between her and Elk Head Woman,
if that.
What was that little kid story her dad told her about whitetails? He said he’d
heard it from his granddad, but Denorah learned later that he never knew her
great-granddad—their years hadn’t overlapped, quite. He’s heard it from some
granddad, then. Either way, when he told it, it was so real. The way whitetails
got that white ring around their mouth and nose, according to him, it was
because they were always sneaking into Browning to drink from the bowls of
milk everybody used to leave out, from back when there weren’t any
reservation dogs, only reservation cats. That was why the whitetail could come
into town like that: no barking. But the cats were too good, they got the mice all
so scared that the mice got smart, started living so deep in the walls of the houses
that the cats couldn’t get to them, so one day all the cats just left. It was two,
maybe three days after that the rst dog trotted into town with a stupid grin on
its face, looked around for what it could pee on.
Denorah hates that she’d believed that, once upon a time. And she wants to
cry for not getting to believe it anymore.
Yes, the deer drank milk, and that left their mouths ringed white.
Fuck it.
Run, run.
She tells herself not to, but she looks back all the same.
No Elk Head Woman. Meaning—meaning Denorah can wait for her to slog
up from whatever dip she’s in, or she can cover some more ground.
She moves, moves.
What she’s counting on now, since the lake isn’t getting any closer, is nding
the road before her mom’s driven down it, nding it and then agging her
mom down, not even letting her stop the car all the way, just climbing in,
locking all four doors, and waving her ahead, Go, go, faster, I’ll explain later, go.
Denorah falls, gets up, falls again, gets up again, and now the horizon is
wavery. Not from heat, but from exhaustion. From cold. From no more
adrenaline. From too many last three seconds.
But then … then: Elk Head Woman is Crow, right?
Denorah stands, pushes on, making herself run again.
No way does a Crow win. Not today, not here.
Even if the world’s blurry. Even if Denorah’s lungs aren’t working. Even if
she can’t feel her legs at all. Even if she’s seeing ledger art come to life now in
front of her.
She slows, shakes her head, tries to clear her eyes.
The ledger art remains. It’s there not fteen feet in front of her.
A dying Indian slumped forward on a horse, what she sees at every booth at
every powwow: The End of the Trail. The only dierence is that the tired war
pony, it’s usually either in silhouette or just white, to better see the dying
Indian’s bare leg on that side.
This horse is a paint.
It raises its head, gives an obligatory whinny about Denorah.
“Calico?” Denorah says weakly, sure this must be a death vision.
Calico whickers, blowing her lips at the end, and Denorah tracks up the
horse’s neck.
Tangled in its long mane, tangled tight, are ngers. Behind them, on Calico’s
back, his blood coating down her side, is the dying rider—
“Nathan!” Denorah screams, running to him, hardly registering that they’re
up on the hard hump of exactly the road she’s been trying for.
She gets to his left leg with her hand, and that nudges him awake. He looks
around, then down to her.
“D,” he says back with half a messed-up smile.
“Are you—what—let me,” Denorah says, no clue where to start or how to
start it.
At which point Calico dances to the side, away from Denorah.
“Po’noka,” Nathan says, sitting all the way up now.
Denorah tracks from his eyes to where he’s looking: behind her.
She turns around already shaking her head no.
Elk Head Woman.
So close.
Two free throws away and walking in a straight, pissed-o line. Probably
because Nathan’s supposed to be dead, not still dying.
“Go, go, go!” Denorah says up to him.
He reaches an arm down for her, to haul her up onto Calico with him, but
the eort nearly tilts him o, and grabbing onto her looks like it would rip him
in half anyway. More in half. Denorah pushes him onto Calico’s back with both
hands, holds him there.
“No,” she says, “I’ll—I’ll lead her to the lake. Tell my—go to town, can you
do that? Ride right the fuck into town and tell them, tell them all … You know
where the Game Oce is? Just … nd my dad, tell him I’m headed to the lake,
the one that Junior guy died in, Duck Lake, tell him—”
“Your … your dad,” Nathan manages to say. “He’s—isn’t he dead?”
“My other dad!” Denorah yells, then grabs on to Calico’s head, hauls her
around, and slaps her hard on the ass, screaming at the same time.
Calico explodes ahead hard, even wheelie-ing up at rst, which Denorah
knows is called something else when it’s a horse, but there’s no time, there’s no
time.
Elk Head Woman steps up onto the packed dirt of the road.
She’s looking at Nathan and Calico, is considering them.
“Hey, you!” Denorah says, bringing that long elk face around to her.
“Nineteen-sixteen,” she says, touching her own chest, then pointing across to
Elk Head Woman. “Thought we had a game to nish here.”
Denorah gets the full attention of one of those big yellow eyes, and she
doesn’t wait, she’s already running.
This isn’ta second or even a fourteenth wind, she knows. This is running on
hardpack with feet she can’t even feel. This is running downhill, toward water.
This is the real last three seconds.
WHERE THE OLD ONES GO
It doesn’t make sense that Denorah is just now getting down to where the lake
sort of is. She’s been running for years, she knows. For her whole life, maybe.
And not running the whole time, either. At least three times now she’s crashed
and burned, just attened out there, ready to give up. Her chin is raw from
scraping, the palms of her hands are bleeding, and she’s not thankful that she
can feel her feet again. Her feet are full of needles.
In her head she mumbles apology to Coach. Players are supposed to save
their legs for game day. Denorah’s not going to be able to walk for a week, she
knows. If then.
But rst she’s got to live.
The last time she fell and decided to just rest her eyes for a moment, for a
breath, for two, okay, the hard dirt so right and perfect against the side of her
face, she came to all at once, instant panic, and rolled over to see Elk Head
Woman just two fence posts behind her.
She’s walking on the road now too, even though the road curves and twists,
banks and falls away in places. If this were fair, if Elk Head Woman were
sticking to her own rules, she’d still be taking a straight line, wouldn’t she? She’d
be getting bogged down out there in the deep stu. Even elk bog down, right?
But elk walk the road, too, Denorah knows. She’s seen them doing it, all in a
long line, heads drooping like it’s the Elk Dust Bowl, the Great Elk Depression.
“What do you want?” Denorah screams back, standing her ground, leaning
forward from screaming so hard. “What did I ever do to you?”
For the rst time Elk Head Woman’s pace steps up.
Denorah falls back, turns it into another push, another run.
What’s it going to take? What else can she do? And, how has she missed her
mom? There isn’t some other road out here, is there? If only her dad were here.
He knew all the old poacher cut-acrosses, all the shortcuts if you had four-wheel
drive.
Denorah fallsagain, leaveseven more hand-meat and knee-meat and mouthblood on the road, and then she rises again, not running anymore, just
stumbling.
She’s not going to make the lake by dark. She’s not ever making the lake.
And—and Nathan, he probably fell o Calico a hundred yards out. He
doesn’t know horses any better than Denorah, and he was already half dead
anyway.
It’s just Denorah and Elk Head Woman, then. One-on-one.
Denorah walks backward a few steps, sees that distinctive head crest over the
road, ears pasted back.
She shakes her head no, no, please, and nearly falls down again, has to catch
herself on one of her raw hands, push up hard before it turns into a dirt nap.
Ten, twenty steps later, there’s a break in the grey trees beside her. A—a gate.
Denorah looks back and Elk Head Woman is gone for a moment, so, no time
to think about it, she steps out onto one side of the big corrugated silver tube
that runs under this oshoot road, and she jumps from it to the top wire of the
gate and ops immediately and unintentionally over the top strand, praying
she’s not leaving tracks. Without looking back, she staggers ahead, her right
hand patting numbly at the point of pain in her belly, probably from a barb.
But that hardly even matters at this point. The road’s a two-track, but one that
hasn’t been used for however many snows there’s been so far this year.
She tries to keep to the hard hump in the middle but loses the road almost
immediately, is in some trees now, is using them to stand, to pull ahead.
Don’t look back, don’t look back.
Just forward, go, keep moving.
Maybe there’ll be a phone booth right up here, she tells herself, her thoughts
getting loopy now, the trees smearing into a wall of upright logs. Denorah
hand-over-hands down along that wall, feeling for the opening. When she nds
it, she was so sure the wall was going to go forever that she falls straight through,
is sliding downhill, scraping and rolling through rocks and bushes and dead
wood.
She lands in a ball of pain maybe ten seconds later, looks back up.
Oh. She was on a ridge. The road must have hooked back to the right to keep
this from happening to all the trucks. But, unlike a truck, she’d gone straight.
Denorah pulls herself up with a bush that scratches every part of her face,
even her lips—is this what her dad calls buckbrush? Or, used to call, she reminds
herself.
“But I’m a doe,” she says, drunk with the pain of it all, and puts one foot in
front of the other, and then repeats that complicated process, and a court length
or two into that she realizes that this is what it’s like to die, isn’t it?
You hurt and you hurt, and then you don’t.
It’s soft at the end. Not just the pain, but the world.
And at least she’ll die with that, she knows: The world killing her. Not the
Crow. Not Elk Head Woman. Not the thing that got her dad.
“I’m sorry,” she says to the idea of him.
Not because he died however he died, but because she never told anybody to
let him stay when they were dragging him from the gym. Because she pretended
she didn’t know him. Because she was embarrassed. Because—because she’s still
that girl standing on the bench seat of his truck beside him while he’s driving,
her hand on his shoulder, the cab full of his stories that were all true, she knows.
Because because because.
Her breath hitches deep and she stops, her hand on an aspen, a birch, she
doesn’t know stupid trees, trees are only good to make basketball courts from.
This tree holds her up just the same. She pats it in thanks and looks past it, to
where she’s going to die.
It’s a eld of … not spikes of snow, no, there’s no such thing.
Bones.
“What?” she says.
She—she can’t be that far out, can she? Marias, that massacre or whatever?
The bones from that wouldn’t still just be lying out there, would they?
Bones don’t last that long.
Unless. Unless she already died a few steps back, and is walking forward
through her people’s past now, maybe. Is that how dying works?
She looks behind her—nothing calling her back—and steps forward
gingerly, to crack this last Big Indian Mystery.
It is another world, the kind she wants to hold her breath in. Not to keep it
from getting into her lungs, but because it’s sacred. There’s skeletonsall around
her. Not Indians, she can tell that now, not people at all, but … cattle? Her new
dad’s told her about grizzly stashes, but those are always back in the trees, not
out in the open like this.
No, this is something dierent, something worse.
Elk.
Denorah nods to herself, puzzling the bones together in her head.
Elk, denitely.
There’s one side of a rack tilted up over there, even, unbleached and frozen,
and—she looks around faster now, more desperate.
This can’t be that place, can it? The place her dad would never tell her
about, where him and his friends blasted all those elk ten years ago?
But it is that place.
Denorah swallows, settles down to her knees, her hand tracing the gentle
curve of a weather-smoothed rib until it’s shattered about halfway down. And
the rib beside it as well, just the same. From a gunshot. Maybe even from a
bullet shot from her dad’s gun.
Denorah looks up the steep slope, can almost hear the ries, can almost see
her dad and Cassidy, Ricky and Lewis, so proud, so thrilled with their luck, with
what great hunters they were.
Her heart beats once, seems to stop in her chest.
“Dad,” she says.
This is where it happened.
Part of her new dad’s story of this, too, the end of it, was her real dad and his
buds throwing their caped-out trophy bull back down the slope, after trying to
bargain to keep just it, please, not even any of the meat, not even the young
little elk.
That’s when she knew it was a true story. Because that’s exactly the kind of
thing her real dad would have asked for: the horns.
But, that story being true, it also means—it means her dad really and truly
did this, doesn’t it? Instead of being the one down in the encampment, bullets
raining down all around, punching through the hide walls of the lodges like she
knows happened to the Blackfeet, to Indians all over, her dad was the one
slinging bullets, probably laughing from the craziness of it all, from how, this
far out, they could do anything, it didn’t even matter.
“I’m sorry,” Denorah says to the elk rib she’s touching, and closes her eyes.
This is a good place, she tells herself. A good enough place. She can lie down
here with them, can’t she? If they’ll have her.
When she opens her eyes ten, twenty seconds later, it’s from snow crunching
behind her.
She sways her back in but she has to do it, has to look around.
Elk Head Woman.
This close, her head is even more wrong.
But she’s not looking at Denorah, has forgotten all about Denorah.
Elk Head Woman falls to her knees too, her human hands to these elk bones,
her nose dipping down to touch a skull, and staying there.
Denorah is breathing heavy, can’t move.
All at once Elk Head Woman thrusts up, casts her long head around, looking
for, looking for—
There.
Just an icy patch of grass like all the rest.
But not to her.
She makes her way over, falls to both human knees over it, lowers her head.
“You—you were here that day, weren’t you?” Denorah says, and Elk Head
Woman snaps her face over, her eyes hot and erce.
Denorah starts to reach a hand across, like the daughter of Elk Head
Woman’s murderer can do anything good here at all, but then she remembers
Victor Yellow Tail’s broken body. And Cassidy’s, and Jolene’s. Her dad’s. She
pulls her hand back to her chest, holds it there.
Now Elk Head Woman is leaning forward on her right arm, her palm to the
bare dirt, like she can feel something down there.
Denorah can feel it writhing around down there, too.
“What is it?” she asks without thinking, but Elk Head Woman is already
digging, frantic, her elk mouth making desperate little chirping sounds.
Denorah, shaking her head no, leans in just enough to see the birth: a fragile
brown leg kicking up from the dirt, ten years after it should have rotted away,
and then a thin little ank there under a swipe of earth, and now Elk Head
Woman is digging faster, more desperate.
An elk calf, still wet, shivering.
She pulls it up to her human chest, its neck too weak to hold its head up, its
chin on her shoulder.
Elk Head Woman’s whole body hitches up, and then sighs with the
perfectness of this skin-to-fur contact.
Which is when the rie shot opens up the world.
Just past Elk Head Woman, a spurt of snow geysers up, the powder hanging
there while the sound rolls away. Denorah looks back up the long slope, to … to
—
“You made it,” she says, in wonder.
It’s her new dad, in his Fish & Game shirt.
Meaning—meaning Nathan made it. He Paul Revered into Browning with
half his blood gone, must have ridden right up to the Game Oce, stayed
conscious long enough to tell Denny Pease that his new daughter, stepdaughter,
she was out by the lake, Duck Lake, and there’s a … there’s a monster—
Her new dad knew just where to go, and just how to get there. There’s only
one spot Gabriel Cross Gun’s daughter would end up. Where his daughter
would be.
His next shot slaps into the ground just in front of Elk Head Woman, like
showing her he can shoot past her, and he can shoot just short of her.
Translation: she’s next.
Elk Head Woman understands this, resists all her instincts to run, instead
turning to curl around her calf, give her back to the slope, hoping her body can
be thick enough to keep her calf safe. Because that’s what an elk mother does,
isn’t it? That’s the only thing you’ve ever really wanted to do this whole time,
ever since you found yourself suddenly back in the world. Just—your anger,
your hate, it was coursing through you so hot, and you got lost in it, and—
Denorah looks up that long hill, into the winking scope and dead eye of her
new dad, and then she looks to Elk Head Woman, to the calf, and she sees now
that both her fathers have stood at the top of this slope behind a rie, and the elk
have always been down here, and it can stop … it has to stop, the old man
telling this in the star lodge says to the children sitting all around him. It has to
stop, he says, brushing his stubby braids out of the way, and the Girl, she knows
this, she can feel it. She can see her real dad dead in that burned-down sweat
lodge, the back of his head gone, but she can also see him up the slope ten years
ago, shooting into a herd of elk that weren’t his to shoot at, and she hates that
he’s dead, she loved him, she is him in every way that counts, but her new dad
shooting the elk beside her isn’t going to bring him back, and as long as she
keeps dribbling behind her back when she doesn’t have to, then her real dad
won’t even really be gone, will he? He’ll still be there in her reckless smile.
Because nobody can kill that.
So—this is where the old man looks from face to face of the children in the
lodge with him, a blanket of stars spread out around them, this is where he says
to all the children gathered around the re that what the Girl does here, for
Po’noka but also for her whole tribe, what she does is slide forward on her
bloody knees, placing her small body between that rie and the elk that killed
her dad.
She holds her right hand up the slope, palm out, ngers spread—the old man
demonstrates—and she says it clear in that cold air: No, Dad! No!
Is it the rst time she’s called him that?
“It is,” the old man says. It is.
By slow degrees, the rie raises, its butt settling down onto Denny Pease’s
right hip. He’s just a silhouette all the way up there. Just another hunter.
For a long moment Elk Head Woman doesn’t move, is just hunched there
around her calf, but then her long head wrenches around, ready to inch from
that next shot boring into her back, to take her legs away again, to start this
whole cycle all over.
Instead, the man-shape up there, he’s sliding his right hand sideways, palm
down, left to right like this, the old man says.
It’s the Indian way of saying a thing is over. It’s what he used to end every
meeting with, when he was trying to pull Gabe and Cass and Ricky and Lewis
back, keep them alive. It’s what he would have told his grandson, if he could
have.
It’s over, enough, it can stop here if you really want it to stop.
The Girl nodsabout this, knows what this hand signal means. She turns back
to Elk Head Woman beside her, but Elk Head Woman is jerking now without
even being shot, is falling over onto her side, still holding on to her calf,
protecting it from whatever this next thing is.
It’s her collapsing into the snow, her legs and arms kicking and reaching,
twisting and creaking. Finally her right leg kicks through its human skin, is
coarse brown hair underneath. Then an arm pushes through, has a clean black
hoof at the end of it.
An elk cow stands up from the snow and lowers her face to her calf, licks its
face until it wobbles up, nds it feet, and that’s the last anyone ever sees of those
two, walking o into the grass, mother and calf, the herd out there waiting to
fold them back in, walk with them through the seasons.
Because it’s the end of the story, the old man holds his right hand up again,
like the Girl did that day, and all the children do as well, and then, just like the
Girl does four years later, when her team loses State in double-overtime, he balls
that hand into an upraised st. What the Girl will be doing with that held-up st
at the end of that forever game, it’s honoring the Crow team that nally gured
out how to shut her down—the rst defense to ever do that, and one of the last.
That show of sportsmanship, of respect, of honor, it’s what gets silhouetted
on thousands of posters all through high school sports, all across the land that
used to be hers.
It’s not the end of the trail, the headlines will all say, it never was the end of
the trail.
It’s the beginning.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I don’t write this novel without Ellen Datlow—not sure how I would write
horror at all without her being her—so, thanks, Ellen, always. Not sure how I’d
write this novel without how Louise Erdrich’s The Antelope Wife lodged in me,
either. But that’severything she writes. Her storiesand charactersand scenesare
shattered all through my heart. Remove any one of them and I bleed out fast.
Too, there’s Elizabeth LaPensée’s Deer Woman: A Vignette, which I picked up
at the rst Indigenous Comic Con. Or, I think Lee Francis IV maybe gave me a
copy when I was there? I don’t remember for sure, but somehow I ended up
curled around that comic book, and couldn’t stop thinking about it. And I’d be
lying if I didn’t also cite the seventh episode of season one of Masters of Horror,
“Deer Woman” by John Landis. I really liked how that woman kicked whoever
needed kicking in that story. I want that for all Indian women. I also want them
all to live, too, please. Some of them are my sisters, my nieces, and all of them
are my cousins, my aunts. And Joe Lansdale is always kind of my model for how
to write, how to get heart and laughs and action and everything good on the
page, in whatever genre. And … somehow James Dickey’s poem “A Birth” is
either really deep in the grass of this story or it’s part of my writer DNA in a way
I can’t shake. The timid steps that new horse takes in that poem, into my world,
that’s the way the elk walk for me in this novel. They’re looking at me while
they graze, I mean, and if I don’t do them right, then they’re coming for me. I
probably won’t hear them either, since my music’s always blasting. Example:
when very rst starting this novel, the song I had on repeat is D-A-D’s song
“Trucker.” Rounding the corner to done, though, I needed people, not music. I
think Matthew Pridham and Krista Davis were the rst to read it, but Matthieu
Lagrenade and Reed Underwood and Bree Pye and Jesse Lawrence and Dave
Buchanan were close behind. Thank you all. Hope I’m remembering
everybody there. If not, then write your name here: ______________. Thank
you, ______________. Thanks as well to Alexandra Neumeister and David
Tromblay and Theo Van Alst, and Billy J. Stratton, none of whom read this
while I was writing it, but talking about dierent things with each of you
nudged me this way in the story instead of that way. Thank you for those talks.
And, talking about talking, I don’t speak Blackfeet, but Robert Hall and
Sterling HolyWhiteMountain were able to make that all right and proper for
me, along with a lot of Browning and Blackfeet Reservation details, which I
didn’t know, as I didn’t grow up there. Which isn’t to say I didn’t still manage
to jack it all up. But, if so, it’s on me, not them. Thanks, Robert and Sterling.
And, okay, Sylvester Yellow Calf too, you’re on every page. And Pat Calf
Looking, my great-uncle, you’re maybe on some as well. While nishing this, I
taughta grad seminar on the haunted house, which was so helpful. Won’t listall
the students in there, as I’m probably already getting the staredown (I’m really
stretching “one paragraph” here … ), but our discussions in that classroom were
so vital to me, getting this novel together, as were some old and not-so-old
haunted house discussions with Nick Kimbro. Too, thanks to my brother-in-law
Oliver Smith, for doing some last-momenteyeshine research deep into a writing
night. And thanks to Migizi Pensoneau for helping me get some Great Falls
facts … I won’t say “right,” as I tend to change things in the writing of them, but
“less wrong,” anyway. I hope. Maybe. Thanks also to Jill Essbaum, who doesn’t
yet know I smuggled the opening line from her Hausfrau up onto the rez, with
some slight liberties taken. Really, though, thanks for always being my lifeline
on the mountain, Jill. I can’t write if I don’t come back down, right? And,
talking about making it down the mountain mostly in one piece: thanks to my
dad, Dennis Jones, for taking me out before dawn morning after morning,
when it’s so dark that everything’s sort of glowing light blue, and you can hear
the elk so close that you’re pretty sure you can reach your hand out, touch
them. Only, they’re ghosts, aren’t they? They’re so much smarter than I’ll ever
be. Mostly what I come back with are stories. But stories last longer than meat, I
say. One of those stories is from my great-uncle Gerry Calf Looking. It’s about
how one time a herd of elk came to Browning, and how the train came through
right when it needed to. And I bet either some of John Calf Looking’s actual
storiesare in here, or I stole the way he tells those stories. But I also stole the way
Delwin Calf Looking said “Tasco” once when we were out after deer, so, you
know: stealing’s what I do, yeah? Or: I’m always listening, anyway. And, the
next-to-nal reader this time was Mackenzie Kiera, who didn’t just give this
novel a pass, she stepped inside it, looked out from it, and guided me back in,
walked me through all the story’s rooms, one of which is the living room of the
house I’m currently renting. It has this high, slanted ceiling, I mean, and this
crazy-eyed light that doesn’t know what to do with electricity. So, thanks,
ridiculous, probably-haunted light. I’d have never looked down through the
blades of my ceiling fan without you. Thanks also—and this is maybe the rst
time I’ve done this, and I might still delete it, because who can believe me—to
the dog that grew up with my kids, Rane and Kinsey. You were Harley here,
Grace. You were the best girl. And? Thanks also to a dude I worked with at a
warehouse a long time back. Butch. I hijacked you, man, renamed you Jerry.
But it’s just because I miss you. You’re also in my “Discovering America” story
from better than twenty yearsago, I guess. I can’t quit writing about you. And,
after all of that to get the novel together, after all the hijackings, all the lifelines
and late-night texts, all the people talking me down from the many ledges
ringed around each and every novel, thanks to BJ Robbins, rst for making it
better, for asking the good questions that I was kind of hoping nobody would
think to ask, and second for believing in it enough to get it on the right editor’s
desk. That editor was and is Joe Monti. Since it’s my name on the cover, you
maybe can’t see the impression his hands have left in this story, this book, but,
really, this novel didn’t nd its nal form, the one you’re holding in your hands,
until he kind of shrugged and asked, “What if it was this way instead of that way,
yeah?” It’s this way now. The other way—what was I even thinking? But
sometimes, some books, it takes the right editor to push it those last few steps,
into what it can be. Thanks, Joe, thanks, BJ, thanks, Lauren Jackson, best
publicist ever, thanks to Madison Penico for helping me get this one right lineby-important-line, thanks, rst, second, last, and current readers, thanks to
everybody, especially the people I’m forgetting, the animals I’m keeping secret,
but mostly, asalways, thanks to my beautiful wonderful smart and perfect wife,
Nancy, for putting herself between me and the world time and again, leaving
me little pockets out of the wind where I can sometimes write a book or three. I
write nothing without you shielding me like that. But, really, thanks just for
seeing me across a wash of sand when we were both nineteen, and holding my
eyes that one little moment longer, a moment that’s lasted and lasted for us, and
still has a lifetime to go.
The Only Good Indians
Stephen Graham Jones
This reading group guide for The Only Good Indians includes an
introduction, discussion questions, and ideas for enhancing your book club. The
suggested questions are intended to help your reading group find new and
interesting angles and topics for your discussion. We hope that these ideas will
enrich your conversation and increase your enjoyment of the book.
Introduction
Four American Indian men from the Blackfeet Nation, who were childhood
friends, nd themselves in a desperate struggle for their lives against an entity
that wants to exact revenge upon them for what they did during an elk hunt ten
years earlier. Not just them, either, but their families and friends.
Topics & Questions for Discussion
1. The story opens with a dark and pessimistic headline that rings true by the
end of the prologue. What do you think of Ricky’s prediction? Do you believe
what he saw that night or was it a gment of his imagination? Could he have
changed the outcome?
2. Lewis is haunted by one afternoon of hunting with his friends, instead of all
the other hunts he’s been a part of. What about that hunting trip was unique?
Do you understand how it was a violation?
3. Lewis believes he is being pursued by the spirit of the young mother elk he
killed. How does his recent string of bad luck chip away at his sanity? Discuss
the combination of factors that push him over the edge. Would these
circumstances have driven you insane?
4. Lewis convinces himself that Elk Head Woman has inltrated his life rst as
Shaney, then as Peta. What convinced him each time? Did you expect him to
kill them both? If so, at what point did you realize he would go that far?
5. As the story unfolds, it seems less and less likely that Ricky and Lewis were
imagining that an elk was after them. What did you believe was happening at
this point in the narrative?
6. Discuss reading the chapters as told through the Elk’s voice. Why do you
think the author chose to include this point of view? What fresh insight does it
provide? How did it change your understanding of the rst few chapters?
7. Having already heard Lewis’s account of that night ten years ago, how does
hearing the Elk’s version of events change your perspective? Does it make the
revenge justied?
8. We’ve had little access into the world Lewis and Ricky left until the novel
moves to Blackfeet Nation. Discuss what you learn about the reservation from
Gabe and Cassidy.
9. As the story progresses, the chapters continue to be told from the perspective
of a pivotal character but with one signicant dierence: moments from the
Elk’s perspective are now interspersed. Discuss this narrative choice. How does
it aect your view on the unfolding events?
10. On page 156, Gabe mentionsemptying his dad’s freezer of the last bit of elk
meat from their hunt ten years ago and feeding it to the dogs. How does this
moment tie into what is happening now? How does it foreshadow what is to
come?
11. Describe Denorah. Discuss how she ties into what is happening with Elk
Head Woman and why she is involved in what happened ten years ago.
12. As the three embark on the sweat, they reveal more about life as a Blackfeet,
both past and present. Discuss the challenges they face and their diering
methods of dealing with them. What, if anything, was surprising or unexpected
about their experiences and their conversation during the sweat?
13. When Elk Head Woman sets her plan in motion, things unravel quickly for
Cassidy and Gabe. She has no remorse for anyone who gets caught in the
crossre. Discuss how everything from one angle implodes, but from her
standpoint goes like clockwork. Do you think this level of violence is
warranted? Is this revenge or overkill?
14. Denorah and Elk Head Woman go toe-to-toe on the basketball court long
before the true game begins. Why does Elk Head Woman draw this out?
Imagine you are in Denorah’s shoes. Could you run, ght, and endure for as
long as she does?
15. Denorah brings the saga full circle in the end. How does she inuence the
outcome? How do her actions compare to the choices her father made? What is
the relationship with her parents? The day’s events have a signicant ripple
eect in the tribe. Why is Denorah’s story passed on?
Enhance Your Book Club
1. Stories, lessons, and legends are passed down from one generation to the
next. Discuss the theme of generational knowledge and how it is an
undercurrent for each character and inuences their decisions. How has the
history you’ve inherited inuenced your life? How does it inuence these
characters’?
2. Everything that happens throughout the novel is possible only because, on
some level, the characters believe that it is. Did their culture and upbringing
inuence that? Discuss what you believe about spirits, the afterlife, and what is
possible or impossible. How easy or dicult was it for you to suspend your
disbelief?
3. Early on, we learn the full meaning behind the title: The Only Good Indians.
Discuss the meaning behind this insult and the author’s choice to use it as the
title. Does it give power to the saying or does it take it away? Discuss its
signicance in the context of this novel, as well as in the world you live in.
More from the Author
Attack of the 50 Foot Indian The Mythic Dream
Echoes
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
© GARY ISAACS
STEPHEN GRAHAM JONES has been an NEA fellowship recipient;
has won the Jesse H. Jones Award for Best Work of Fiction from the Texas
Institute of Letters, the Independent Publishers Award for Multicultural
Fiction, a Bram Stoker Award, and four This Is Horror Awards; and has been a
nalist for the Shirley Jackson Award and the World Fantasy Award. He is the
Ivena Baldwin Professor of English at the University of Colorado Boulder.
FOR MORE ON THIS AUTHOR:
SimonandSchuster.com/Authors/Stephen-Graham-Jones
SimonandSchuster.com
SAGAPRESS.COM
Facebook.com/SagaPressBooks
@SagaSFF
We hope you enjoyed reading
this Simon & Schuster ebook.
Get a FREE ebook when you join our mailing list. Plus, get updates on new releases,
deals, recommended reads, and more from Simon & Schuster. Click below to sign up
and see terms and conditions.
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP
Already a subscriber? Provide your email again so we can register this ebook and send
you more of what you like to read. You will continue to receive exclusive offers in your
inbox.
www.SimonandSchuster.com
This book is a work of ction. Any references to historical events, real people, or real places are used
ctitiously. Other names, characters, places, and events are products of the author’s imagination, and any
resemblance to actual events or places or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.
Copyright © 2020 by Stephen Graham Jones
All rights reserved, including the right to reproduce this book or portions thereof in any form whatsoever.
For information, address Saga Press Subsidiary Rights Department, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New
York, NY 10020.
First Saga Press hardcover edition May 2020
SAGA PRESS and colophon are trademarks of Simon & Schuster, Inc.
For information about special discounts for bulk purchases, please contact Simon & Schuster Special
Sales at 1-866-506-1949 or business@simonandschuster.com.
The Simon & Schuster Speakers Bureau can bring authors to your live event. For more information or to
book an event, contact the Simon & Schuster Speakers Bureau at 1-866-248-3049 or visit our website at
www.simonspeakers.com.
Interior design by Michelle Marchese
Jacket design by Ella Laytham
Jacket photography by Nick Bondarev/Stocksy; Shutterstock; 123RF; Getty
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Jones, Stephen Graham, 1972– author.
Title: The only good Indians : a novel / Stephen Graham Jones.
Description: First edition. | New York : Saga Press, [2020]
Identiers: LCCN 2019032510 (print) | LCCN 2019032511 (ebook) | ISBN 9781982136451 (hardcover)
| ISBN 9781982136475 (ebook)
Subjects: GSAFD: Horror ction.
Classication: LCC PS3560.O5395 O55 2020 (print) | LCC PS3560.O5395 (ebook) | DDC 813/.54--dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2019032510
LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2019032511
ISBN 978-1-9821-3645-1
ISBN 978-1-9821-3647-5 (ebook)